#+TITLE: Manpages - cal.1
* NAME
cal - display a calendar

* SYNOPSIS
*cal* [options] [[[/day/] /month/] /year/]

*cal* [options] [/timestamp/|/monthname/]

* DESCRIPTION
*cal* displays a simple calendar. If no arguments are specified, the
current month is displayed.

The /month/ may be specified as a number (1-12), as a month name or as
an abbreviated month name according to the current locales.

Two different calendar systems are used, Gregorian and Julian. These are
nearly identical systems with Gregorian making a small adjustment to the
frequency of leap years; this facilitates improved synchronization with
solar events like the equinoxes. The Gregorian calendar reform was
introduced in 1582, but its adoption continued up to 1923. By default
*cal* uses the adoption date of 3 Sept 1752. From that date forward the
Gregorian calendar is displayed; previous dates use the Julian calendar
system. 11 days were removed at the time of adoption to bring the
calendar in sync with solar events. So Sept 1752 has a mix of Julian and
Gregorian dates by which the 2nd is followed by the 14th (the 3rd
through the 13th are absent).

Optionally, either the proleptic Gregorian calendar or the Julian
calendar may be used exclusively. See *--reform* below.

* OPTIONS
*-1*, *--one*

#+begin_quote
Display single month output. (This is the default.)

#+end_quote

*-3*, *--three*

#+begin_quote
Display three months spanning the date.

#+end_quote

*-n , --months* /number/

#+begin_quote
Display /number/ of months, starting from the month containing the date.

#+end_quote

*-S, --span*

#+begin_quote
Display months spanning the date.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--sunday*

#+begin_quote
Display Sunday as the first day of the week.

#+end_quote

*-m*, *--monday*

#+begin_quote
Display Monday as the first day of the week.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--vertical*

#+begin_quote
Display using a vertical layout (aka *ncal*(1) mode).

#+end_quote

*--iso*

#+begin_quote
Display the proleptic Gregorian calendar exclusively. This option does
not affect week numbers and the first day of the week. See *--reform*
below.

#+end_quote

*-j*, *--julian*

#+begin_quote
Use day-of-year numbering for all calendars. These are also called
ordinal days. Ordinal days range from 1 to 366. This option does not
switch from the Gregorian to the Julian calendar system, that is
controlled by the *--reform* option.

Sometimes Gregorian calendars using ordinal dates are referred to as
Julian calendars. This can be confusing due to the many date related
conventions that use Julian in their name: (ordinal) julian date, julian
(calendar) date, (astronomical) julian date, (modified) julian date, and
more. This option is named julian, because ordinal days are identified
as julian by the POSIX standard. However, be aware that *cal* also uses
the Julian calendar system. See *DESCRIPTION* above.

#+end_quote

*--reform* /val/

#+begin_quote
This option sets the adoption date of the Gregorian calendar reform.
Calendar dates previous to reform use the Julian calendar system.
Calendar dates after reform use the Gregorian calendar system. The
argument /val/ can be:

#+begin_quote
路

/1752/ - sets 3 September 1752 as the reform date (default). This is
when the Gregorian calendar reform was adopted by the British Empire.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

/gregorian/ - display Gregorian calendars exclusively. This special
placeholder sets the reform date below the smallest year that *cal* can
use; meaning all calendar output uses the Gregorian calendar system.
This is called the proleptic Gregorian calendar, because dates prior to
the calendar system's creation use extrapolated values.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

/iso/ - alias of /gregorian/. The ISO 8601 standard for the
representation of dates and times in information interchange requires
using the proleptic Gregorian calendar.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

/julian/ - display Julian calendars exclusively. This special
placeholder sets the reform date above the largest year that *cal* can
use; meaning all calendar output uses the Julian calendar system.

See *DESCRIPTION* above.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--year*

#+begin_quote
Display a calendar for the whole year.

#+end_quote

*-Y, --twelve*

#+begin_quote
Display a calendar for the next twelve months.

#+end_quote

*-w*, *--week*[=/number/]

#+begin_quote
Display week numbers in the calendar (US or ISO-8601). See the *NOTES*
section for more details.

#+end_quote

*--color*[=/when/]

#+begin_quote
Colorize the output. The optional argument /when/ can be *auto*, *never*
or *always*. If the /when/ argument is omitted, it defaults to *auto*.
The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default see the
*--help* output. See also the *COLORS* section.

#+end_quote

*-c, --columns*=/columns/

#+begin_quote
Number of columns to use. *auto* uses as many as fit the terminal.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* PARAMETERS
*Single digits-only parameter (e.g., cal 2020)*

#+begin_quote
Specifies the /year/ to be displayed; note the year must be fully
specified: *cal 89* will not display a calendar for 1989.

#+end_quote

*Single string parameter (e.g., cal tomorrow or cal August)*

#+begin_quote
Specifies /timestamp/ or a /month name/ (or abbreviated name) according
to the current locales.

The special placeholders are accepted when parsing timestamp, "now" may
be used to refer to the current time, "today", "yesterday", "tomorrow"
refer to of the current day, the day before or the next day,
respectively.

The relative date specifications are also accepted, in this case "+" is
evaluated to the current time plus the specified time span.
Correspondingly, a time span that is prefixed with "-" is evaluated to
the current time minus the specified time span, for example +2days.
Instead of prefixing the time span with "+" or "-", it may also be
suffixed with a space and the word "left" or "ago" (for example 1 week
ago).

#+end_quote

*Two parameters (e.g., cal 11 2020)*

#+begin_quote
Denote the /month/ (1 - 12) and /year/.

#+end_quote

*Three parameters (e.g., cal 25 11 2020)*

#+begin_quote
Denote the /day/ (1-31), /month and year/, and the day will be
highlighted if the calendar is displayed on a terminal. If no parameters
are specified, the current month's calendar is displayed.

#+end_quote

* NOTES
A year starts on January 1. The first day of the week is determined by
the locale or the *--sunday* and *--monday* options.

The week numbering depends on the choice of the first day of the week.
If it is Sunday then the customary North American numbering is used,
where 1 January is in week number 1. If it is Monday (*-m*) then the ISO
8601 standard week numbering is used, where the first Thursday is in
week number 1.

* COLORS
The output colorization is implemented by *terminal-colors.d*(5)
functionality. Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file

#+begin_quote
//etc/terminal-colors.d/cal.disable/\\

#+end_quote

for the *cal* command or for all tools by

#+begin_quote
//etc/terminal-colors.d/disable/\\

#+end_quote

The user-specific /$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d/ or
/$HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d/ overrides the global setting.

Note that the output colorization may be enabled by default, and in this
case /terminal-colors.d/ directories do not have to exist yet.

The logical color names supported by *cal* are:

*today*

#+begin_quote
The current day.

#+end_quote

*weeknumber*

#+begin_quote
The number of the week.

#+end_quote

*header*

#+begin_quote
The header of a month.

#+end_quote

*workday*

#+begin_quote
Days that fall within the work-week.

#+end_quote

*weekend*

#+begin_quote
Days that fall outside the work-week.

#+end_quote

For example:

#+begin_quote
echo -e weekend 35\ntoday 1;41\nheader yellow >
$HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d/cal.scheme\\

#+end_quote

* HISTORY
A *cal* command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.

* BUGS
The default *cal* output uses 3 September 1752 as the Gregorian calendar
reform date. The historical reform dates for the other locales,
including its introduction in October 1582, are not implemented.

Alternative calendars, such as the Umm al-Qura, the Solar Hijri, the
Ge'ez, or the lunisolar Hindu, are not supported.

* SEE ALSO
*terminal-colors.d*(5)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *cal* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
