#+TITLE: Manpages - chage.1
* NAME
chage - change user password expiry information

* SYNOPSIS
*chage* [/options/] /LOGIN/

* DESCRIPTION
The *chage* command changes the number of days between password changes
and the date of the last password change. This information is used by
the system to determine when a user must change their password.

* OPTIONS
The options which apply to the *chage* command are:

*-d*, *--lastday* /LAST_DAY/

#+begin_quote
Set the number of days since January 1st, 1970 when the password was
last changed. The date may also be expressed in the format YYYY-MM-DD
(or the format more commonly used in your area). If the /LAST_DAY/ is
set to /0/ the user is forced to change his password on the next log on.

#+end_quote

*-E*, *--expiredate* /EXPIRE_DATE/

#+begin_quote
Set the date or number of days since January 1, 1970 on which the users
account will no longer be accessible. The date may also be expressed in
the format YYYY-MM-DD (or the format more commonly used in your area). A
user whose account is locked must contact the system administrator
before being able to use the system again.

For example the following can be used to set an account to expire in 180
days:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
	    chage -E $(date -d +180days +%Y-%m-%d)
	  
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Passing the number /-1/ as the /EXPIRE_DATE/ will remove an account
expiration date.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help message and exit.

#+end_quote

*-i*, *--iso8601*

#+begin_quote
When printing dates, use YYYY-MM-DD format.

#+end_quote

*-I*, *--inactive* /INACTIVE/

#+begin_quote
Set the number of days of inactivity after a password has expired before
the account is locked. The /INACTIVE/ option is the number of days of
inactivity. A user whose account is locked must contact the system
administrator before being able to use the system again.

Passing the number /-1/ as the /INACTIVE/ will remove an accounts
inactivity.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--list*

#+begin_quote
Show account aging information.

#+end_quote

*-m*, *--mindays* /MIN_DAYS/

#+begin_quote
Set the minimum number of days between password changes to /MIN_DAYS/. A
value of zero for this field indicates that the user may change their
password at any time.

#+end_quote

*-M*, *--maxdays* /MAX_DAYS/

#+begin_quote
Set the maximum number of days during which a password is valid. When
/MAX_DAYS/ plus /LAST_DAY/ is less than the current day, the user will
be required to change their password before being able to use their
account. This occurrence can be planned for in advance by use of the
*-W* option, which provides the user with advance warning.

Passing the number /-1/ as /MAX_DAYS/ will remove checking a passwords
validity.

#+end_quote

*-R*, *--root* /CHROOT_DIR/

#+begin_quote
Apply changes in the /CHROOT_DIR/ directory and use the configuration
files from the /CHROOT_DIR/ directory. Only absolute paths are
supported.

#+end_quote

*-P*, *--prefix* /PREFIX_DIR/

#+begin_quote
Apply changes to configuration files under the root filesystem found
under the directory /PREFIX_DIR/. This option does not chroot and is
intended for preparing a cross-compilation target. Some limitations: NIS
and LDAP users/groups are not verified. PAM authentication is using the
host files. No SELINUX support.

#+end_quote

*-W*, *--warndays* /WARN_DAYS/

#+begin_quote
Set the number of days of warning before a password change is required.
The /WARN_DAYS/ option is the number of days prior to the password
expiring that a user will be warned their password is about to expire.

#+end_quote

If none of the options are selected, *chage* operates in an interactive
fashion, prompting the user with the current values for all of the
fields. Enter the new value to change the field, or leave the line blank
to use the current value. The current value is displayed between a pair
of /[ ]/ marks.

* NOTE
The *chage* program requires a shadow password file to be available.

The chage program will report only the information from the shadow
password file. This implies that configuration from other sources (e.g.
LDAP or empty password hash field from the passwd file) that affect the
users login will not be shown in the chage output.

The *chage* program will also not report any inconsistency between the
shadow and passwd files (e.g. missing x in the passwd file). The *pwck*
can be used to check for this kind of inconsistencies.

The *chage* command is restricted to the root user, except for the *-l*
option, which may be used by an unprivileged user to determine when
their password or account is due to expire.

* CONFIGURATION
The following configuration variables in /etc/login.defs change the
behavior of this tool:

*USE_TCB* (boolean)

#+begin_quote
If /yes/, the *tcb*(5) password shadowing scheme will be used.

#+end_quote

* FILES
/etc/passwd

#+begin_quote
User account information.

#+end_quote

/etc/shadow

#+begin_quote
Secure user account information.

#+end_quote

* EXIT VALUES
The *chage* command exits with the following values:

/0/

#+begin_quote
success

#+end_quote

/1/

#+begin_quote
permission denied

#+end_quote

/2/

#+begin_quote
invalid command syntax

#+end_quote

/15/

#+begin_quote
cant find the shadow password file

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*passwd*(5), *shadow*(5).
