#+TITLE: Manpages - chfn.1
* NAME
chfn - change real user name and information

* SYNOPSIS
*chfn* [/options/] [/LOGIN/]

* DESCRIPTION
The *chfn* command changes user fullname, office room number, office
phone number, and home phone number information for a users account.
This information is typically printed by *finger*(1) and similar
programs. A normal user may only change the fields for her own account,
subject to the restrictions in /etc/login.defs. (The default
configuration is to prevent users from changing their fullname.) The
superuser may change any field for any account. Additionally, only the
superuser may use the *-o* option to change the undefined portions of
the GECOS field.

These fields must not contain any colons. Except for the /other/ field,
they should not contain any comma or equal sign. It is also recommended
to avoid non-US-ASCII characters, but this is only enforced for the
phone numbers. The /other/ field is used to store accounting information
used by other applications.

* OPTIONS
The options which apply to the *chfn* command are:

*-f*, *--full-name* /FULL_NAME/

#+begin_quote
Change the users full name.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--home-phone* /HOME_PHONE/

#+begin_quote
Change the users home phone number.

#+end_quote

*-o*, *--other* /OTHER/

#+begin_quote
Change the users other GECOS information. This field is used to store
accounting information used by other applications, and can be changed
only by a superuser.

#+end_quote

*-r*, *--room* /ROOM_NUMBER/

#+begin_quote
Change the users room number.

#+end_quote

*-R*, *--root* /CHROOT_DIR/

#+begin_quote
Apply changes in the /CHROOT_DIR/ directory and use the configuration
files from the /CHROOT_DIR/ directory. Only absolute paths are
supported.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help message and exit.

#+end_quote

*-w*, *--work-phone* /WORK_PHONE/

#+begin_quote
Change the users office phone number.

#+end_quote

If none of the options are selected, *chfn* operates in an interactive
fashion, prompting the user with the current values for all of the
fields. Enter the new value to change the field, or leave the line blank
to use the current value. The current value is displayed between a pair
of *[ ]* marks. Without options, *chfn* prompts for the current user
account.

* CONFIGURATION
The following configuration variables in /etc/login.defs change the
behavior of this tool:

*CHFN_RESTRICT* (string)

#+begin_quote
This parameter specifies which values in the /gecos/ field of the
/etc/passwd file may be changed by regular users using the *chfn*
program. It can be any combination of letters /f/, /r/, /w/, /h/, for
Full name, Room number, Work phone, and Home phone, respectively. For
backward compatibility, /yes/ is equivalent to /rwh/ and /no/ is
equivalent to /frwh/. If not specified, only the superuser can make any
changes. The most restrictive setting is better achieved by not
installing *chfn* SUID.

#+end_quote

* FILES
/etc/login.defs

#+begin_quote
Shadow password suite configuration.

#+end_quote

/etc/passwd

#+begin_quote
User account information.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*chsh*(1), *login.defs*(5), *passwd*(5).
