#+TITLE: Manpages - dbus-monitor.1
* NAME
dbus-monitor - debug probe to print message bus messages

* SYNOPSIS
*dbus-monitor* [--system | --session | --address /ADDRESS/] [--profile |
--monitor | --pcap | --binary] [/watch/ /expressions/]\\

* DESCRIPTION
The *dbus-monitor* command is used to monitor messages going through a
D-Bus message bus. See *http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/* for
more information about the big picture.

There are two well-known message buses: the systemwide message bus
(installed on many systems as the "messagebus" service) and the
per-user-login-session message bus (started each time a user logs in).
The --system and --session options direct *dbus-monitor* to monitor the
system or session buses respectively. If neither is specified,
*dbus-monitor* monitors the session bus.

*dbus-monitor* has two different text output modes: the classic-style
monitoring mode, and profiling mode. The profiling format is a compact
format with a single line per message and microsecond-resolution timing
information. The --profile and --monitor options select the profiling
and monitoring output format respectively.

*dbus-monitor* also has two binary output modes. The binary mode,
selected by --binary, outputs the entire binary message stream (without
the initial authentication handshake). The PCAP mode, selected by
--pcap, adds a PCAP file header to the beginning of the output, and
prepends a PCAP message header to each message; this produces a binary
file that can be read by, for instance, Wireshark.

If no mode is specified, *dbus-monitor* uses the monitoring output
format.

In order to get *dbus-monitor* to see the messages you are interested
in, you should specify a set of watch expressions as you would expect to
be passed to the /dbus_bus_add_match/ function.

The message bus configuration may keep *dbus-monitor* from seeing all
messages, especially if you run the monitor as a non-root user.

* OPTIONS
.PP *--system*

#+begin_quote
Monitor the system message bus.

.RE .PP *--session*

#+begin_quote
Monitor the session message bus. (This is the default.)

.RE .PP *--address ADDRESS*

#+begin_quote
Monitor an arbitrary message bus given at ADDRESS.

.RE .PP *--profile*

#+begin_quote
Use the profiling output format.

.RE .PP *--monitor*

#+begin_quote
Use the monitoring output format. (This is the default.)

.RE

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLE
Here is an example of using dbus-monitor to watch for the gnome typing
monitor to say things

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example

  dbus-monitor "type=signal,sender=org.gnome.TypingMonitor,interface=org.gnome.TypingMonitor"
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* AUTHOR
dbus-monitor was written by Philip Blundell. The profiling output mode
was added by Olli Salli.

* BUGS
Please send bug reports to the D-Bus mailing list or bug tracker, see
*http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/*
