#+TITLE: Manpages - dbus-test-tool.1
.SH "NAME" dbus-test-tool - D-Bus traffic generator and test tool

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.HP u

*dbus-test-tool* black-hole [ | --session | --system ] [--name=/NAME/]
[--no-read]

.HP u

*dbus-test-tool* echo [ | --session | --system ] [--name=/NAME/]
[--sleep-ms=/MS/]

.HP u

*dbus-test-tool* spam [ | --session | --system ] [--dest=/NAME/]
[--count=/N/] [--flood] [--ignore-errors] [--messages-per-conn=/N/]
[--no-reply] [--queue=/N/] [--seed=/SEED/] [ | --string | --bytes |
--empty ] [ | --payload=/S/ | --stdin | --message-stdin | --random-size
]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP *dbus-test-tool* is a multi-purpose tool for debugging and profiling
D-Bus.

.PP *dbus-test-tool black-hole* connects to D-Bus, optionally requests a
name, then does not reply to messages. It normally reads and discards
messages from its D-Bus socket, but can be configured to sleep forever
without reading.

.PP *dbus-test-tool echo* connects to D-Bus, optionally requests a name,
then sends back an empty reply to every method call, after an optional
delay.

.PP *dbus-test-tool spam* connects to D-Bus and makes repeated method
calls, normally named com.example.Spam.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.SS "Common options"

.PP *--session*

#+begin_quote
Connect to the session bus. This is the default.

.RE

.PP *--system*

#+begin_quote
Connect to the system bus.

.RE

.SS "black-hole mode"

.PP *--name=*/NAME/

#+begin_quote
Before proceeding, request ownership of the well-known bus name /NAME/,
for example com.example.NoReply. By default, no name is requested, and
the tool can only be addressed by a unique bus name such as :1.23.

.RE

.PP *--no-read*

#+begin_quote
Do not read from the D-Bus socket.

.RE

.SS "echo mode"

.PP *--name=*/NAME/

#+begin_quote
Before proceeding, request ownership of the well-known bus name /NAME/,
for example com.example.Echo. By default, no name is requested, and the
tool can only be addressed by a unique bus name such as :1.23.

.RE

.PP *--sleep-ms=*/MS/

#+begin_quote
Block for /MS/ milliseconds before replying to a method call.

.RE

.SS "spam mode"

.PP *--dest=*/NAME/

#+begin_quote
Send method calls to the well-known or unique bus name /NAME/. The
default is the dbus-daemon, org.freedesktop.DBus.

.RE

.PP *--count=*/N/

#+begin_quote
Send /N/ method calls in total. The default is 1.

.RE

.PP *--queue=*/N/

#+begin_quote
Send /N/ method calls before waiting for any replies, then send one new
call per reply received, keeping /N/ method calls "in flight" at all
times until the number of messages specified with the *--count* option
have been sent. The default is 1, unless *--flood* is used.

.RE

.PP *--flood*

#+begin_quote
Send all messages without waiting for a reply, equivalent to *--queue*
with an arbitrarily large /N/.

.RE

.PP *--no-reply*

#+begin_quote
Set the "no reply desired" flag on the messages. This implies *--flood*,
since it disables the replies that would be used for a finite *--queue*
length.

.RE

.PP *--messages-per-conn=*/N/

#+begin_quote
If given, send /N/ method calls on the same connection, then disconnect
and reconnect. The default is to use the same connection for all method
calls.

.RE

.PP *--string*

#+begin_quote
The payload of each message is a UTF-8 string. This is the default. The
actual string used is given by the *--payload* or *--stdin* option,
defaulting to "hello, world!".

.RE

.PP *--bytes*

#+begin_quote
The payload of each message is a byte-array. The actual bytes used are
given by the *--payload* or *--stdin* option, defaulting to the ASCII
encoding of "hello, world!".

.RE

.PP *--empty*

#+begin_quote
The messages have no payload.

.RE

.PP *--payload=*/S/

#+begin_quote
Use /S/ as the *--string* or *--bytes* in the messages. The default is
"hello, world!".

.RE

.PP *--stdin*

#+begin_quote
Read from standard input until end-of-file is reached, and use that as
the *--string* or *--bytes* in the messages.

.RE

.PP *--message-stdin*

#+begin_quote
Read a complete binary D-Bus method call message from standard input,
and use that for each method call.

.RE

.PP *--random-size*

#+begin_quote
Read whitespace-separated ASCII decimal numbers from standard input,
choose one at random for each message, and send a message whose payload
is a string of that length.

.RE

.PP *--seed=*/SEED/

#+begin_quote
Use /SEED/ as the seed for the pseudorandom number generator, to have
somewhat repeatable sequences of random messages.

.RE

.SH "BUGS"

.PP Please send bug reports to the D-Bus bug tracker or mailing list.
See *http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/*.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP *dbus-send*(1)

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* COPYRIGHT
\\
Copyright Â© 2015 Collabora Ltd.\\

.PP This man page is distributed under the same terms as dbus-test-tool
(GPL-2+). There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
