#+TITLE: Manpages - dconf.1
* NAME
dconf - Simple tool for manipulating a dconf database

* SYNOPSIS
*dconf* read [-d] /KEY/

*dconf* list /DIR/

*dconf* write /KEY/ /VALUE/

*dconf* reset [-f] /PATH/

*dconf* compile /OUTPUT/ /KEYFILEDIR/

*dconf* update [/DBDIR/]

*dconf* watch /PATH/

*dconf* dump /DIR/

*dconf* load [-f] /DIR/

*dconf* help [/COMMAND/]

* DESCRIPTION
The *dconf* program can perform various operations on a dconf database,
such as reading or writing individual values or entire directories. This
tool operates on dconf directly, without using gsettings schema
information. Therefore, it cannot perform type and consistency checks on
values. The *gsettings*(1) utility is an alternative if such checks are
needed.

The /DIR/ arguments must be directory paths (starting and ending with
/), the /KEY/ arguments must be key paths (starting, but not ending with
/) and the /PATH/ arguments can be either directory or key paths.

The /OUTPUT/ argument must the location to write a (binary) dconf
database to and the /KEYFILEDIR/ argument must be a .d directory
containing keyfiles.

/VALUE/ arguments must be in GVariant format, so e.g. a string must
include explicit quotes: "foo". This format is also used when printing
out values.

Note that dconf needs a D-Bus session bus connection to write changes to
the dconf database.

* COMMANDS
*read*

#+begin_quote
Read the value of a key.

#+end_quote

*list*

#+begin_quote
List the sub-keys and sub-directories of a directory.

#+end_quote

*write*

#+begin_quote
Write a new value to a key.

#+end_quote

*reset*

#+begin_quote
Reset a key or an entire directory. For directories, *-f* must be
specified.

#+end_quote

*compile*

#+begin_quote
Compile a binary database from keyfiles.

The result is always in little-endian byte order, so it can be safely
installed in share. If it is used on a big endian machine, dconf will
automatically byteswap the contents on read.

#+end_quote

*update*

#+begin_quote
Update the system dconf databases.

#+end_quote

*watch*

#+begin_quote
Watch a key or directory for changes.

#+end_quote

*dump*

#+begin_quote
Dump an entire subpath to stdout. The output is in a keyfile-like
format, with values in GVariant syntax.

#+end_quote

*load*

#+begin_quote
Populate a subpath from stdin. The expected format is the same as
produced by *dump*. Attempting to change non-writable keys cancels the
load command. To ignore changes to non-writable keys instead, use *-f*.

#+end_quote

*help*

#+begin_quote
Display help and exit. If /COMMAND/ is given, display help for this
command.

#+end_quote

* ENVIRONMENT
*DCONF_PROFILE*

#+begin_quote
This environment variable determines which dconf profile to use. See
*dconf*(7).

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*dconf*(7), *gsettings*(1), *dconf-editor*(1)
