#+TITLE: Manpages - dmesg.1
* NAME
dmesg - print or control the kernel ring buffer

* SYNOPSIS
*dmesg* [options]

*dmesg* *--clear*

*dmesg* *--read-clear* [options]

*dmesg* *--console-level* /level/

*dmesg* *--console-on*

*dmesg* *--console-off*

* DESCRIPTION
*dmesg* is used to examine or control the kernel ring buffer.

The default action is to display all messages from the kernel ring
buffer.

* OPTIONS
The *--clear*, *--read-clear*, *--console-on*, *--console-off*, and
*--console-level* options are mutually exclusive.

*-C*, *--clear*

#+begin_quote
Clear the ring buffer.

#+end_quote

*-c*, *--read-clear*

#+begin_quote
Clear the ring buffer after first printing its contents.

#+end_quote

*-D*, *--console-off*

#+begin_quote
Disable the printing of messages to the console.

#+end_quote

*-d*, *--show-delta*

#+begin_quote
Display the timestamp and the time delta spent between messages. If used
together with *--notime* then only the time delta without the timestamp
is printed.

#+end_quote

*-E*, *--console-on*

#+begin_quote
Enable printing messages to the console.

#+end_quote

*-e*, *--reltime*

#+begin_quote
Display the local time and the delta in human-readable format. Be aware
that conversion to the local time could be inaccurate (see *-T* for more
details).

#+end_quote

*-F*, *--file* /file/

#+begin_quote
Read the syslog messages from the given /file/. Note that *-F* does not
support messages in kmsg format. The old syslog format is supported
only.

#+end_quote

*-f*, *--facility* /list/

#+begin_quote
Restrict output to the given (comma-separated) /list/ of facilities. For
example:

*dmesg --facility=daemon*

will print messages from system daemons only. For all supported
facilities see the *--help* output.

#+end_quote

*-H*, *--human*

#+begin_quote
Enable human-readable output. See also *--color*, *--reltime* and
*--nopager*.

#+end_quote

*-J*, *--json*

#+begin_quote
Use JSON output format. The time output format is in "sec.usec" format
only, log priority level is not decoded by default (use *--decode* to
split into facility and priority), the other options to control the
output format or time format are silently ignored.

#+end_quote

*-k*, *--kernel*

#+begin_quote
Print kernel messages.

#+end_quote

*-L*, *--color*[=/when/]

#+begin_quote
Colorize the output. The optional argument /when/ can be *auto*, *never*
or *always*. If the /when/ argument is omitted, it defaults to *auto*.
The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default see the
*--help* output. See also the *COLORS* section below.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--level* /list/

#+begin_quote
Restrict output to the given (comma-separated) /list/ of levels. For
example:

*dmesg --level=err,warn*

will print error and warning messages only. For all supported levels see
the *--help* output.

Appending a plus *+* to a level name also includes all higher levels.
For example:

*dmesg --level=err+*

will print levels *err*, *crit*, *alert* and *emerg*.

Prepending it will include all lower levels.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--console-level* /level/

#+begin_quote
Set the /level/ at which printing of messages is done to the console.
The /level/ is a level number or abbreviation of the level name. For all
supported levels see the *--help* output.

For example, *-n 1* or *-n emerg* prevents all messages, except
emergency (panic) messages, from appearing on the console. All levels of
messages are still written to //proc/kmsg/, so *syslogd*(8) can still be
used to control exactly where kernel messages appear. When the *-n*
option is used, *dmesg* will /not/ print or clear the kernel ring
buffer.

#+end_quote

*--noescape*

#+begin_quote
The unprintable and potentially unsafe characters (e.g., broken
multi-byte sequences, terminal controlling chars, etc.) are escaped in
format \x<hex> for security reason by default. This option disables this
feature at all. It's usable for example for debugging purpose together
with *--raw*. Be careful and don't use it by default.

#+end_quote

*-P*, *--nopager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager. A pager is enabled by default for
*--human* output.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--force-prefix*

#+begin_quote
Add facility, level or timestamp information to each line of a
multi-line message.

#+end_quote

*-r*, *--raw*

#+begin_quote
Print the raw message buffer, i.e., do not strip the log-level prefixes,
but all unprintable characters are still escaped (see also
*--noescape*).

Note that the real raw format depends on the method how *dmesg* reads
kernel messages. The //dev/kmsg/ device uses a different format than
*syslog*(2). For backward compatibility, *dmesg* returns data always in
the *syslog*(2) format. It is possible to read the real raw data from
//dev/kmsg/ by, for example, the command dd if=/dev/kmsg iflag=nonblock.

#+end_quote

*-S*, *--syslog*

#+begin_quote
Force *dmesg* to use the *syslog*(2) kernel interface to read kernel
messages. The default is to use //dev/kmsg/ rather than *syslog*(2)
since kernel 3.5.0.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--buffer-size* /size/

#+begin_quote
Use a buffer of /size/ to query the kernel ring buffer. This is 16392 by
default. (The default kernel syslog buffer size was 4096 at first, 8192
since 1.3.54, 16384 since 2.1.113.) If you have set the kernel buffer to
be larger than the default, then this option can be used to view the
entire buffer.

#+end_quote

*-T*, *--ctime*

#+begin_quote
Print human-readable timestamps.

*Be aware that the timestamp could be inaccurate!* The *time* source
used for the logs is *not updated after* system *SUSPEND*/*RESUME*.
Timestamps are adjusted according to current delta between boottime and
monotonic clocks, this works only for messages printed after last
resume.

#+end_quote

*--since* /time/

#+begin_quote
Display record since the specified time. Supported is the subsecond
granularity. The time is possible to specify in absolute way as well as
by relative notation (e.g. 1 hour ago). Be aware that the timestamp
could be inaccurate and see *--ctime* for more details.

#+end_quote

*--until* /time/

#+begin_quote
Display record until the specified time. Supported is the subsecond
granularity. The time is possible to specify in absolute way as well as
by relative notation (e.g. 1 hour ago). Be aware that the timestamp
could be inaccurate and see *--ctime* for more details.

#+end_quote

*-t*, *--notime*

#+begin_quote
Do not print kernel's timestamps.

#+end_quote

*--time-format* /format/

#+begin_quote
Print timestamps using the given /format/, which can be *ctime*,
*reltime*, *delta* or *iso*. The first three formats are aliases of the
time-format-specific options. The *iso* format is a *dmesg*
implementation of the ISO-8601 timestamp format. The purpose of this
format is to make the comparing of timestamps between two systems, and
any other parsing, easy. The definition of the *iso* timestamp is:
YYYY-MM-DD<T>HH:MM:SS,<microseconds>←+><timezone offset from UTC>.

The *iso* format has the same issue as *ctime*: the time may be
inaccurate when a system is suspended and resumed.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--userspace*

#+begin_quote
Print userspace messages.

#+end_quote

*-w*, *--follow*

#+begin_quote
Wait for new messages. This feature is supported only on systems with a
readable //dev/kmsg/ (since kernel 3.5.0).

#+end_quote

*-W*, *--follow-new*

#+begin_quote
Wait and print only new messages.

#+end_quote

*-x*, *--decode*

#+begin_quote
Decode facility and level (priority) numbers to human-readable prefixes.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* COLORS
The output colorization is implemented by *terminal-colors.d*(5)
functionality. Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file

#+begin_quote
//etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.disable/\\

#+end_quote

for the *dmesg* command or for all tools by

#+begin_quote
//etc/terminal-colors.d/disable/\\

#+end_quote

The user-specific /$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d/ or
/$HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d/ overrides the global setting.

Note that the output colorization may be enabled by default, and in this
case /terminal-colors.d/ directories do not have to exist yet.

The logical color names supported by *dmesg* are:

*subsys*

#+begin_quote
The message sub-system prefix (e.g., "ACPI:").

#+end_quote

*time*

#+begin_quote
The message timestamp.

#+end_quote

*timebreak*

#+begin_quote
The message timestamp in short ctime format in *--reltime* or *--human*
output.

#+end_quote

*alert*

#+begin_quote
The text of the message with the alert log priority.

#+end_quote

*crit*

#+begin_quote
The text of the message with the critical log priority.

#+end_quote

*err*

#+begin_quote
The text of the message with the error log priority.

#+end_quote

*warn*

#+begin_quote
The text of the message with the warning log priority.

#+end_quote

*segfault*

#+begin_quote
The text of the message that inform about segmentation fault.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
*dmesg* can fail reporting permission denied error. This is usually
caused by *dmesg_restrict* kernel setting, please see *syslog*(2) for
more details.

* AUTHORS
*dmesg* was originally written by

* SEE ALSO
*terminal-colors.d*(5), *syslogd*(8)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *dmesg* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
