#+TITLE: Manpages - dnssec-keyfromlabel.1
* NAME
dnssec-keyfromlabel - DNSSEC key generation tool

* SYNOPSIS
*dnssec-keyfromlabel* {*-l* label} [*-3*] [*-a* algorithm] [*-A*
date/offset] [*-c* class] [*-D* date/offset] [*-D* sync date/offset]
[*-E* engine] [*-f* flag] [*-G*] [*-I* date/offset] [*-i* interval]
[*-k*] [*-K* directory] [*-L* ttl] [*-n* nametype] [*-P* date/offset]
[*-P* sync date/offset] [*-p* protocol] [*-R* date/offset] [*-S* key]
[*-t* type] [*-v* level] [*-V*] [*-y*] {name}

* DESCRIPTION
*dnssec-keyfromlabel* generates a pair of key files that reference a key
object stored in a cryptographic hardware service module (HSM). The
private key file can be used for DNSSEC signing of zone data as if it
were a conventional signing key created by /dnssec-keygen/, but the key
material is stored within the HSM and the actual signing takes place
there.

The *name* of the key is specified on the command line. This must match
the name of the zone for which the key is being generated.

* OPTIONS

#+begin_quote
- *-a algorithm* :: This option selects the cryptographic algorithm. The
  value of *algorithm* must be one of RSASHA1, NSEC3RSASHA1, RSASHA256,
  RSASHA512, ECDSAP256SHA256, ECDSAP384SHA384, ED25519, or ED448.

  These values are case-insensitive. In some cases, abbreviations are
  supported, such as ECDSA256 for ECDSAP256SHA256 and ECDSA384 for
  ECDSAP384SHA384. If RSASHA1 is specified along with the /-3/ option,
  then NSEC3RSASHA1 is used instead.

  This option is mandatory except when using the /-S/ option, which
  copies the algorithm from the predecessory key.

  Changed in version 9.12.0: The default value RSASHA1 for newly
  generated keys was removed.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-3* :: This option uses an NSEC3-capable algorithm to generate a
  DNSSEC key. If this option is used with an algorithm that has both
  NSEC and NSEC3 versions, then the NSEC3 version is used; for example,
  *dnssec-keygen -3a RSASHA1* specifies the NSEC3RSASHA1 algorithm.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-E engine* :: This option specifies the cryptographic hardware to
  use.

  When BIND 9 is built with OpenSSL, this needs to be set to the OpenSSL
  engine identifier that drives the cryptographic accelerator or
  hardware service module (usually *pkcs11*).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-l label* :: This option specifies the label for a key pair in the
  crypto hardware.

  When BIND 9 is built with OpenSSL-based PKCS#11 support, the label is
  an arbitrary string that identifies a particular key. It may be
  preceded by an optional OpenSSL engine name, followed by a colon, as
  in *pkcs11:keylabel*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-n nametype* :: This option specifies the owner type of the key. The
  value of *nametype* must either be ZONE (for a DNSSEC zone key
  (KEY/DNSKEY)), HOST or ENTITY (for a key associated with a host
  (KEY)), USER (for a key associated with a user (KEY)), or OTHER
  (DNSKEY). These values are case-insensitive.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-C* :: This option enables compatibility mode, which generates an
  old-style key, without any metadata. By default, *dnssec-keyfromlabel*
  includes the key's creation date in the metadata stored with the
  private key; other dates may be set there as well, including
  publication date, activation date, etc. Keys that include this data
  may be incompatible with older versions of BIND; the /-C/ option
  suppresses them.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-c class* :: This option indicates that the DNS record containing the
  key should have the specified class. If not specified, class IN is
  used.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-f flag* :: This option sets the specified flag in the *flag* field
  of the KEY/DNSKEY record. The only recognized flags are KSK
  (Key-Signing Key) and REVOKE.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-G* :: This option generates a key, but does not publish it or sign
  with it. This option is incompatible with /-P/ and /-A/.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-h* :: This option prints a short summary of the options and
  arguments to *dnssec-keyfromlabel*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-K directory* :: This option sets the directory in which the key
  files are to be written.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-k* :: This option generates KEY records rather than DNSKEY records.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-L ttl* :: This option sets the default TTL to use for this key when
  it is converted into a DNSKEY RR. This is the TTL used when the key is
  imported into a zone, unless there was already a DNSKEY RRset in
  place, in which case the existing TTL would take precedence. Setting
  the default TTL to *0* or *none* removes it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-p protocol* :: This option sets the protocol value for the key. The
  protocol is a number between 0 and 255. The default is 3 (DNSSEC).
  Other possible values for this argument are listed in /RFC 2535/ and
  its successors.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-S key* :: This option generates a key as an explicit successor to an
  existing key. The name, algorithm, size, and type of the key are set
  to match the predecessor. The activation date of the new key is set to
  the inactivation date of the existing one. The publication date is set
  to the activation date minus the prepublication interval, which
  defaults to 30 days.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-t type* :: This option indicates the type of the key. *type* must be
  one of AUTHCONF, NOAUTHCONF, NOAUTH, or NOCONF. The default is
  AUTHCONF. AUTH refers to the ability to authenticate data, and CONF to
  the ability to encrypt data.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-v level* :: This option sets the debugging level.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-V* :: This option prints version information.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-y* :: This option allows DNSSEC key files to be generated even if
  the key ID would collide with that of an existing key, in the event of
  either key being revoked. (This is only safe to enable if /RFC 5011/
  trust anchor maintenance is not used with either of the keys
  involved.)

#+end_quote

* TIMING OPTIONS
Dates can be expressed in the format YYYYMMDD or YYYYMMDDHHMMSS (which
is the format used inside key files), or 'Day Mon DD HH:MM:SS YYYY' (as
printed by *dnssec-settime -p*), or UNIX epoch time (as printed by
*dnssec-settime -up*), or the literal *now*.

The argument can be followed by *+* or *-* and an offset from the given
time. The literal *now* can be omitted before an offset. The offset can
be followed by one of the suffixes *y*, *mo*, *w*, *d*, *h*, or *mi*, so
that it is computed in years (defined as 365 24-hour days, ignoring leap
years), months (defined as 30 24-hour days), weeks, days, hours, or
minutes, respectively. Without a suffix, the offset is computed in
seconds.

To explicitly prevent a date from being set, use *none*, *never*, or
*unset*.

All these formats are case-insensitive.

#+begin_quote
- *-P date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which a key is to be
  published to the zone. After that date, the key is included in the
  zone but is not used to sign it. If not set, and if the /-G/ option
  has not been used, the default is the current date.

  - *sync date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which CDS and
    CDNSKEY records that match this key are to be published to the zone.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-A date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be activated. After that date, the key is included in the zone and
  used to sign it. If not set, and if the /-G/ option has not been used,
  the default is the current date.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-R date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be revoked. After that date, the key is flagged as revoked. It is
  included in the zone and is used to sign it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-I date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be retired. After that date, the key is still included in the zone,
  but it is not used to sign it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-D date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be deleted. After that date, the key is no longer included in the
  zone. (However, it may remain in the key repository.)

  - *sync date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the CDS and
    CDNSKEY records that match this key are to be deleted.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-i interval* :: This option sets the prepublication interval for a
  key. If set, then the publication and activation dates must be
  separated by at least this much time. If the activation date is
  specified but the publication date is not, the publication date
  defaults to this much time before the activation date; conversely, if
  the publication date is specified but not the activation date,
  activation is set to this much time after publication.

  If the key is being created as an explicit successor to another key,
  then the default prepublication interval is 30 days; otherwise it is
  zero.

  As with date offsets, if the argument is followed by one of the
  suffixes *y*, *mo*, *w*, *d*, *h*, or *mi*, the interval is measured
  in years, months, weeks, days, hours, or minutes, respectively.
  Without a suffix, the interval is measured in seconds.

#+end_quote

* GENERATED KEY FILES
When *dnssec-keyfromlabel* completes successfully, it prints a string of
the form *Knnnn.+aaa+iiiii* to the standard output. This is an
identification string for the key files it has generated.

#+begin_quote
- *nnnn* is the key name.

- *aaa* is the numeric representation of the algorithm.

- *iiiii* is the key identifier (or footprint).

#+end_quote

*dnssec-keyfromlabel* creates two files, with names based on the printed
string. *Knnnn.+aaa+iiiii.key* contains the public key, and
*Knnnn.+aaa+iiiii.private* contains the private key.

The *.key* file contains a DNS KEY record that can be inserted into a
zone file (directly or with an $INCLUDE statement).

The *.private* file contains algorithm-specific fields. For obvious
security reasons, this file does not have general read permission.

* SEE ALSO
/dnssec-keygen(8)/, /dnssec-signzone(8)/, BIND 9 Administrator Reference
Manual, /RFC 4034/, /RFC 7512/.

* AUTHOR
Internet Systems Consortium

* COPYRIGHT
2024, Internet Systems Consortium
