#+TITLE: Manpages - dnssec-settime.1
* NAME
dnssec-settime - set the key timing metadata for a DNSSEC key

* SYNOPSIS
*dnssec-settime* [*-f*] [*-K* directory] [*-L* ttl] [*-P* date/offset]
[*-P* ds date/offset] [*-P* sync date/offset] [*-A* date/offset] [*-R*
date/offset] [*-I* date/offset] [*-D* date/offset] [*-D* ds date/offset]
[*-D* sync date/offset] [*-S* key] [*-i* interval] [*-h*] [*-V*] [*-v*
level] [*-E* engine] {keyfile} [*-s*] [*-g* state] [*-d* state
date/offset] [*-k* state date/offset] [*-r* state date/offset] [*-z*
state date/offset]

* DESCRIPTION
*dnssec-settime* reads a DNSSEC private key file and sets the key timing
metadata as specified by the /-P/, /-A/, /-R/, /-I/, and /-D/ options.
The metadata can then be used by /dnssec-signzone/ or other signing
software to determine when a key is to be published, whether it should
be used for signing a zone, etc.

If none of these options is set on the command line, *dnssec-settime*
simply prints the key timing metadata already stored in the key.

When key metadata fields are changed, both files of a key pair
(*Knnnn.+aaa+iiiii.key* and *Knnnn.+aaa+iiiii.private*) are regenerated.

Metadata fields are stored in the private file. A human-readable
description of the metadata is also placed in comments in the key file.
The private file's permissions are always set to be inaccessible to
anyone other than the owner (mode 0600).

When working with state files, it is possible to update the timing
metadata in those files as well with /-s/. With this option, it is also
possible to update key states with /-d/ (DS), /-k/ (DNSKEY), /-r/ (RRSIG
of KSK), or /-z/ (RRSIG of ZSK). Allowed states are HIDDEN, RUMOURED,
OMNIPRESENT, and UNRETENTIVE.

The goal state of the key can also be set with /-g/. This should be
either HIDDEN or OMNIPRESENT, representing whether the key should be
removed from the zone or published.

It is NOT RECOMMENDED to manipulate state files manually, except for
testing purposes.

* OPTIONS

#+begin_quote
- *-f* :: This option forces an update of an old-format key with no
  metadata fields. Without this option, *dnssec-settime* fails when
  attempting to update a legacy key. With this option, the key is
  recreated in the new format, but with the original key data retained.
  The key's creation date is set to the present time. If no other values
  are specified, then the key's publication and activation dates are
  also set to the present time.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-K directory* :: This option sets the directory in which the key
  files are to reside.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-L ttl* :: This option sets the default TTL to use for this key when
  it is converted into a DNSKEY RR. This is the TTL used when the key is
  imported into a zone, unless there was already a DNSKEY RRset in
  place, in which case the existing TTL takes precedence. If this value
  is not set and there is no existing DNSKEY RRset, the TTL defaults to
  the SOA TTL. Setting the default TTL to *0* or *none* removes it from
  the key.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-h* :: This option emits a usage message and exits.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-V* :: This option prints version information.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-v level* :: This option sets the debugging level.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-E engine* :: This option specifies the cryptographic hardware to
  use, when applicable.

  When BIND 9 is built with OpenSSL, this needs to be set to the OpenSSL
  engine identifier that drives the cryptographic accelerator or
  hardware service module (usually *pkcs11*).

#+end_quote

* TIMING OPTIONS
Dates can be expressed in the format YYYYMMDD or YYYYMMDDHHMMSS (which
is the format used inside key files), or 'Day Mon DD HH:MM:SS YYYY' (as
printed by *dnssec-settime -p*), or UNIX epoch time (as printed by
*dnssec-settime -up*), or the literal *now*.

The argument can be followed by *+* or *-* and an offset from the given
time. The literal *now* can be omitted before an offset. The offset can
be followed by one of the suffixes *y*, *mo*, *w*, *d*, *h*, or *mi*, so
that it is computed in years (defined as 365 24-hour days, ignoring leap
years), months (defined as 30 24-hour days), weeks, days, hours, or
minutes, respectively. Without a suffix, the offset is computed in
seconds.

To unset a date, use *none*, *never*, or *unset*.

All these formats are case-insensitive.

#+begin_quote
- *-P date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which a key is to be
  published to the zone. After that date, the key is included in the
  zone but is not used to sign it.

  - *ds date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which DS records
    that match this key have been seen in the parent zone.

#+begin_quote
- *sync date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which CDS and
  CDNSKEY records that match this key are to be published to the zone.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-A date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be activated. After that date, the key is included in the zone and
  used to sign it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-R date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be revoked. After that date, the key is flagged as revoked. It is
  included in the zone and is used to sign it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-I date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be retired. After that date, the key is still included in the zone,
  but it is not used to sign it.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-D date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the key is to
  be deleted. After that date, the key is no longer included in the
  zone. (However, it may remain in the key repository.)

  - *ds date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the DS
    records that match this key have been seen removed from the parent
    zone.

#+begin_quote
- *sync date/offset* :: This option sets the date on which the CDS and
  CDNSKEY records that match this key are to be deleted.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-S predecessor key* :: This option selects a key for which the key
  being modified is an explicit successor. The name, algorithm, size,
  and type of the predecessor key must exactly match those of the key
  being modified. The activation date of the successor key is set to the
  inactivation date of the predecessor. The publication date is set to
  the activation date minus the prepublication interval, which defaults
  to 30 days.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-i interval* :: This option sets the prepublication interval for a
  key. If set, then the publication and activation dates must be
  separated by at least this much time. If the activation date is
  specified but the publication date is not, the publication date
  defaults to this much time before the activation date; conversely, if
  the publication date is specified but not the activation date,
  activation is set to this much time after publication.

  If the key is being created as an explicit successor to another key,
  then the default prepublication interval is 30 days; otherwise it is
  zero.

  As with date offsets, if the argument is followed by one of the
  suffixes *y*, *mo*, *w*, *d*, *h*, or *mi*, the interval is measured
  in years, months, weeks, days, hours, or minutes, respectively.
  Without a suffix, the interval is measured in seconds.

#+end_quote

* KEY STATE OPTIONS
To test dnssec-policy it may be necessary to construct keys with
artificial state information; these options are used by the testing
framework for that purpose, but should never be used in production.

Known key states are HIDDEN, RUMOURED, OMNIPRESENT, and UNRETENTIVE.

#+begin_quote
- *-s* :: This option indicates that when setting key timing data, the
  state file should also be updated.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-g state* :: This option sets the goal state for this key. Must be
  HIDDEN or OMNIPRESENT.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-d state date/offset* :: This option sets the DS state for this key
  as of the specified date, offset from the current date.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-k state date/offset* :: This option sets the DNSKEY state for this
  key as of the specified date, offset from the current date.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-r state date/offset* :: This option sets the RRSIG (KSK) state for
  this key as of the specified date, offset from the current date.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-z state date/offset* :: This option sets the RRSIG (ZSK) state for
  this key as of the specified date, offset from the current date.

#+end_quote

* PRINTING OPTIONS
*dnssec-settime* can also be used to print the timing metadata
associated with a key.

#+begin_quote
- *-u* :: This option indicates that times should be printed in Unix
  epoch format.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
- *-p C/P/Pds/Psync/A/R/I/D/Dds/Dsync/all* :: This option prints a
  specific metadata value or set of metadata values. The /-p/ option may
  be followed by one or more of the following letters or strings to
  indicate which value or values to print: *C* for the creation date,
  *P* for the publication date, *Pds` for the DS publication* date,
  ``Psync for the CDS and CDNSKEY publication date, *A* for the
  activation date, *R* for the revocation date, *I* for the inactivation
  date, *D* for the deletion date, *Dds* for the DS deletion date, and
  *Dsync* for the CDS and CDNSKEY deletion date. To print all of the
  metadata, use *all*.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
/dnssec-keygen(8)/, /dnssec-signzone(8)/, BIND 9 Administrator Reference
Manual, /RFC 5011/.

* AUTHOR
Internet Systems Consortium

* COPYRIGHT
2024, Internet Systems Consortium
