#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-create-usb.1
* NAME
flatpak-create-usb - Copy apps and/or runtimes onto removable media.

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak create-usb* [OPTION...] MOUNT-PATH REF...

* DESCRIPTION
Copies the specified apps and/or runtimes REFs onto the removable media
mounted at MOUNT-PATH, along with all the dependencies and metadata
needed for installing them. This is one way of transferring flatpaks
between computers that doesnt require an Internet connection. After
using this command, the USB drive can be connected to another computer
which already has the relevant remote(s) configured, and Flatpak will
install or update from the drive offline (see below). If online, the
drive will be used as a cache, meaning some objects will be pulled from
it and others from the Internet. For this process to work a collection
ID must be configured on the relevant remotes on both the source and
destination computers, and on the remote server.

On the destination computer one can install from the USB (or any mounted
filesystem) using the *--sideload-repo* option with *flatpak install*.
Its also possible to configure sideload paths using symlinks; see
*flatpak*(1). Flatpak also includes systemd units to automatically
sideload from hot-plugged USB drives, but these may or may not be
enabled depending on your Linux distribution.

Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref
format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements
except ID are optional and can be left out, including the slashes, so
most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be
matched against what is installed, and if there are multiple matches an
error message will list the alternatives.

By default this looks for both installed apps and runtimes with the
given REF, but you can limit this by using the *--app* or *--runtime*
option.

All REFs must be in the same installation (user, system, or other).
Otherwise its ambiguous which repository metadata refs to put on the USB
drive.

By default *flatpak create-usb* uses .ostree/repo as the destination
directory under MOUNT-PATH but if you specify another location using
*--destination-repo* a symbolic link will be created for you in
.ostree/repos.d. This ensures that either way the repository will be
found by flatpak (and other consumers of libostree) for install/update
operations.

Unless overridden with the *--system*, *--user*, or *--installation*
options, this command searches both the system-wide installation and the
per-user one for REF and errors out if it exists in more than one.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Copy refs from the per-user installation.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Copy refs from the default system-wide installation.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Copy refs from a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those
defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using *--installation=default*
is equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--app*

#+begin_quote
Assume that all REFs are apps if not explicitly specified.

#+end_quote

*--runtime*

#+begin_quote
Assume that all REFs are runtimes if not explicitly specified.

#+end_quote

*--destination-repo*=DEST

#+begin_quote
Create the repository in DEST under MOUNT-PATH, rather than the default
location.

#+end_quote

*--allow-partial*

#+begin_quote
Dont print a warning when exporting partially installed commits, for
example locale extensions without all languages. These can cause
problems when installing them, for example if the language config is
different on the installing side.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak create-usb
/run/media/mwleeds/1a9b4cb2-a7ef-4d9b-91a5-6eaf8fdd2bf6/
com.endlessm.wiki_art.en*

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak remote-modify*(1), *flatpak-install*(1),
*flatpak-list*(1), *ostree-create-usb*(1)
