#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-install.1
* NAME
flatpak-install - Install an application or runtime

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak install* [OPTION...] [REMOTE] REF...

*flatpak install* [OPTION...] [--from|--bundle] LOCATION

* DESCRIPTION
Installs an application or runtime. The primary way to install is to
specify a REMOTE name as the source and one ore more REFs to specify the
application or runtime to install. If REMOTE is omitted, the configured
remotes are searched for the first REF and the user is asked to confirm
the resulting choice.

Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref
format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements
except ID are optional and can be left out, including the slashes, so
most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be
matched against what is in the remote, and if there are multiple matches
you will be prompted to choose one of them. You will also be prompted
with choices if REF doesnt match anything in the remote exactly but is
similar to one or more refs in the remote (e.g. "devhelp" is similar to
"org.gnome.Devhelp"), but this fuzzy matching behavior is disabled if
REF contains any slashes or periods.

By default this looks for both apps and runtimes with the given REF in
the specified REMOTE, but you can limit this by using the *--app* or
*--runtime* option, or by supplying the initial element in the REF.

If REMOTE is a uri or a path (absolute or relative starting with ./) to
a local repository, then that repository will be used as the source, and
a temporary remote will be created for the lifetime of the REF.

If the specified REMOTE has a collection ID configured on it, Flatpak
will search the sideload-repos directories configured either with the
*--sideload-repo* option, or on a per-installation or system-wide basis
(see *flatpak*(1)).

The alternative form of the command (with *--from* or *--bundle*) allows
to install directly from a source such as a .flatpak single-file bundle
or a .flatpakref application description. The options are optional if
the first argument has the expected filename extension.

Note that flatpak allows to have multiple branches of an application and
runtimes installed and used at the same time. However, only one version
of an application can be current, meaning its exported files (for
instance desktop files and icons) are visible to the host. The last
installed version is made current by default, but this can manually
changed with flatpak make-current.

Unless overridden with the *--user* or the *--installation* option, this
command installs the application or runtime in the default system-wide
installation.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*--bundle*

#+begin_quote
Treat LOCATION as a single-bundle file. This is assumed if the argument
ends with .flatpak.

#+end_quote

*--from*

#+begin_quote
Treat LOCATION as an application description file. This is assumed if
the argument ends with .flatpakref.

#+end_quote

*--reinstall*

#+begin_quote
Uninstall first if already installed.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Install the application or runtime in a per-user installation.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Install the application or runtime in the default system-wide
installation.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Install the application or runtime in a system-wide installation
specified by NAME among those defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/.
Using *--installation=default* is equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--arch=ARCH*

#+begin_quote
The default architecture to install for, if not given explicitly in the
REF. See *flatpak --supported-arches* for architectures supported by the
host.

#+end_quote

*--subpath=PATH*

#+begin_quote
Install only a subpath of REF. This is mainly used to install a subset
of locales. This can be added multiple times to install multiple
subpaths.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-file=FILE*

#+begin_quote
Check bundle signatures with GPG key from FILE (- for stdin).

#+end_quote

*--no-deploy*

#+begin_quote
Download the latest version, but dont deploy it.

#+end_quote

*--no-pull*

#+begin_quote
Dont download the latest version, deploy whatever is locally available.

#+end_quote

*--no-related*

#+begin_quote
Dont download related extensions, such as the locale data.

#+end_quote

*--no-deps*

#+begin_quote
Dont verify runtime dependencies when installing.

#+end_quote

*--or-update*

#+begin_quote
Normally install just ignores things that are already installed
(printing a warning), but if --or-update is specified it silently turns
it into an update operation instead.

#+end_quote

*--app*

#+begin_quote
Assume that all REFs are apps if not explicitly specified.

#+end_quote

*--runtime*

#+begin_quote
Assume that all REFs are runtimes if not explicitly specified.

#+end_quote

*--sideload-repo=PATH*

#+begin_quote
Adds an extra local ostree repo as a source for installation. This is
equivalent to using the sideload-repos directories (see *flatpak*(1)),
but can be done on a per-command basis. Any path added here is used in
addition to ones in those directories.

#+end_quote

*--include-sdk*

#+begin_quote
For each app being installed, also installs the SDK that was used to
build it. Implies *--or-update*; incompatible with *--no-deps*.

#+end_quote

*--include-debug*

#+begin_quote
For each ref being installed, as well as all dependencies, also installs
its debug info. Implies *--or-update*; incompatible with *--no-deps*.

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--assumeyes*

#+begin_quote
Automatically answer yes to all questions (or pick the most prioritized
answer). This is useful for automation.

#+end_quote

*--noninteractive*

#+begin_quote
Produce minimal output and avoid most questions. This is suitable for
use in non-interactive situations, e.g. in a build script.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak install gedit*

*$ flatpak install flathub org.gnome.gedit*

*$ flatpak --installation=default install flathub org.gnome.gedit*

*$ flatpak --user install flathub org.gnome.gedit//3.30*

*$ flatpak --user install
https://flathub.org/repo/appstream/org.gnome.gedit.flatpakref*

*$ flatpak --system install org.gnome.gedit.flatpakref*

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak-update*(1), *flatpak-list*(1),
*flatpak-build-bundle*(1), *flatpak-flatpakref*(1),
*flatpak-make-current*(1), *ostree-find-remotes*(1)
