#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-update.1
* NAME
flatpak-update - Update an application or runtime

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak update* [OPTION...] [REF...]

*flatpak update* [OPTION...] --appstream [REMOTE]

* DESCRIPTION
Updates applications and runtimes. REF is a reference to the application
or runtime to update. If no REF is given, everything is updated, as well
as appstream info for all remotes.

Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref
format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements
except ID are optional and can be left out, including the slashes, so
most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be
matched against what is installed, and if there are multiple matches an
error message will list the alternatives.

By default this looks for both apps and runtimes with the given REF, but
you can limit this by using the *--app* or *--runtime* option, or by
supplying the initial element in the REF.

Normally, this command updates the application to the tip of its branch.
But it is possible to check out another commit, with the *--commit*
option.

If the configured remote for a ref being updated has a collection ID
configured on it, Flatpak will search the sideload-repos directories
configured either with the *--sideload-repo* option, or on a
per-installation or system-wide basis (see *flatpak*(1)).

Note that updating a runtime is different from installing a different
branch, and runtime updates are expected to keep strict compatibility.
If an application update does cause a problem, it is possible to go back
to the previous version, with the *--commit* option.

In addition to updates, this command will offer to uninstall any unused
end-of-life runtimes. Runtimes that were explicitly installed (not as a
dependency) or explicitly pinned (see *flatpak-pin*(1)) are left
installed even if unused and end-of-life.

Unless overridden with the *--user*, *--system* or *--installation*
option, this command updates any matching refs in the standard
system-wide installation and the per-user one.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Update a per-user installation.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Update the default system-wide installation.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Updates a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined
in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using *--installation=default* is
equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--arch=ARCH*

#+begin_quote
The architecture to update for. See *flatpak --supported-arches* for
architectures supported by the host.

#+end_quote

*--subpath=PATH*

#+begin_quote
Install only a subpath of the ref. This is mainly used to install a
subset of locales. This can be added multiple times to install multiple
subpaths. If this is not specified the subpaths specified at install
time are reused.

#+end_quote

*--commit=COMMIT*

#+begin_quote
Update to this commit, instead of the tip of the branch. You can find
commits using *flatpak remote-info --log REMOTE REF*.

#+end_quote

*--no-deploy*

#+begin_quote
Download the latest version, but dont deploy it.

#+end_quote

*--no-pull*

#+begin_quote
Dont download the latest version, deploy whatever is locally available.

#+end_quote

*--no-related*

#+begin_quote
Dont download related extensions, such as the locale data.

#+end_quote

*--no-deps*

#+begin_quote
Dont update or install runtime dependencies when installing.

#+end_quote

*--app*

#+begin_quote
Only look for an app with the given name.

#+end_quote

*--appstream*

#+begin_quote
Update appstream for REMOTE, or all remotes if no remote is specified.

#+end_quote

*--runtime*

#+begin_quote
Only look for a runtime with the given name.

#+end_quote

*--sideload-repo=PATH*

#+begin_quote
Adds an extra local ostree repo as a source for installation. This is
equivalent to using the sideload-repos directories (see *flatpak*(1)),
but can be done on a per-command basis. Any path added here is used in
addition to ones in those directories.

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--assumeyes*

#+begin_quote
Automatically answer yes to all questions (or pick the most prioritized
answer). This is useful for automation.

#+end_quote

*--noninteractive*

#+begin_quote
Produce minimal output and avoid most questions. This is suitable for
use in non-interactive situations, e.g. in a build script.

#+end_quote

*--force-remove*

#+begin_quote
Remove old files even if theyre in use by a running application.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak --user update org.gnome.gedit*

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak-install*(1), *flatpak-list*(1),
*ostree-find-remotes*(1)
