#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-build-finish.1
* NAME
flatpak-build-finish - Finalize a build directory

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak build-finish* [OPTION...] DIRECTORY

* DESCRIPTION
Finalizes a build directory, to prepare it for exporting. DIRECTORY is
the name of the directory.

The result of this command is that desktop files, icons, D-Bus service
files, and AppStream metainfo files from the files subdirectory are
copied to a new export subdirectory. In the metadata file, the command
key is set in the [Application] group, and the supported keys in the
[Environment] group are set according to the options.

As part of finalization you can also specify permissions that the app
needs, using the various options specified below. Additionally during
finalization the permissions from the runtime are inherited into the app
unless you specify *--no-inherit-permissions*

You should review the exported files and the application metadata before
creating and distributing an application bundle.

It is an error to run build-finish on a directory that has not been
initialized as a build directory, or has already been finalized.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*--command=COMMAND*

#+begin_quote
The command to use. If this option is not specified, the first
executable found in files/bin is used.

Note that the command is used when the application is run via *flatpak
run*, and does not affect what gets executed when the application is run
in other ways, e.g. via the desktop file or D-Bus activation.

#+end_quote

*--require-version=MAJOR.MINOR.MICRO*

#+begin_quote
Require this version or later of flatpak to install/update to this
build.

#+end_quote

*--share=SUBSYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Share a subsystem with the host session. This updates the [Context]
group in the metadata. SUBSYSTEM must be one of: network, ipc. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--unshare=SUBSYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Dont share a subsystem with the host session. This updates the [Context]
group in the metadata. SUBSYSTEM must be one of: network, ipc. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--socket=SOCKET*

#+begin_quote
Expose a well-known socket to the application. This updates the
[Context] group in the metadata. SOCKET must be one of: x11, wayland,
fallback-x11, pulseaudio, system-bus, session-bus, ssh-auth, pcsc, cups,
gpg-agent. This option can be used multiple times.

The fallback-x11 option makes the X11 socket available only if there is
no Wayland socket. This option was introduced in 0.11.3. To support
older Flatpak releases, specify both x11 and fallback-x11. The
fallback-x11 option takes precedence when both are supported.

#+end_quote

*--nosocket=SOCKET*

#+begin_quote
Dont expose a well known socket to the application. This updates the
[Context] group in the metadata. SOCKET must be one of: x11, wayland,
fallback-x11, pulseaudio, system-bus, session-bus, ssh-auth, pcsc, cups,
gpg-agent. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--device=DEVICE*

#+begin_quote
Expose a device to the application. This updates the [Context] group in
the metadata. DEVICE must be one of: dri, kvm, shm, all. This option can
be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--nodevice=DEVICE*

#+begin_quote
Dont expose a device to the application. This updates the [Context]
group in the metadata. DEVICE must be one of: dri, kvm, shm, all. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--allow=FEATURE*

#+begin_quote
Allow access to a specific feature. This updates the [Context] group in
the metadata. FEATURE must be one of: devel, multiarch, bluetooth,
canbus, per-app-dev-shm. This option can be used multiple times.

The devel feature allows the application to access certain syscalls such
as ptrace(), and perf_event_open().

The multiarch feature allows the application to execute programs
compiled for an ABI other than the one supported natively by the system.
For example, for the x86_64 architecture, 32-bit x86 binaries will be
allowed as well.

The bluetooth feature allows the application to use bluetooth
(AF_BLUETOOTH) sockets. Note, for bluetooth to fully work you must also
have network access.

The canbus feature allows the application to use canbus (AF_CAN)
sockets. Note, for this work you must also have network access.

The per-app-dev-shm feature shares a single instance of /dev/shm between
the application, any unrestricted subsandboxes that it creates, and any
other instances of the application that are launched while it is
running.

#+end_quote

*--disallow=FEATURE*

#+begin_quote
Disallow access to a specific feature. This updates the [Context] group
in the metadata. FEATURE must be one of: devel, multiarch, bluetooth,
canbus, per-app-dev-shm. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--filesystem=FS*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application access to a subset of the filesystem. This updates
the [Context] group in the metadata. FS can be one of: home, host,
host-os, host-etc, xdg-desktop, xdg-documents, xdg-download, xdg-music,
xdg-pictures, xdg-public-share, xdg-templates, xdg-videos, xdg-run,
xdg-config, xdg-cache, xdg-data, an absolute path, or a homedir-relative
path like ~/dir or paths relative to the xdg dirs, like
xdg-download/subdir. The optional :ro suffix indicates that the location
will be read-only. The optional :create suffix indicates that the
location will be read-write and created if it doesnt exist. This option
can be used multiple times. See the "[Context] filesystems" list in
*flatpak-metadata*(5) for details of the meanings of these filesystems.

#+end_quote

*--nofilesystem=FILESYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Remove access to the specified subset of the filesystem from the
application. This overrides to the Context section from the application
metadata. FILESYSTEM can be one of: home, host, host-os, host-etc,
xdg-desktop, xdg-documents, xdg-download, xdg-music, xdg-pictures,
xdg-public-share, xdg-templates, xdg-videos, an absolute path, or a
homedir-relative path like ~/dir. This option can be used multiple
times.

#+end_quote

*--add-policy=SUBSYSTEM.KEY=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Add generic policy option. For example, "--add-policy=subsystem.key=v1
--add-policy=subsystem.key=v2" would map to this metadata:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
[Policy subsystem]
key=v1;v2;
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--remove-policy=SUBSYSTEM.KEY=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Remove generic policy option. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--env=VAR=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Set an environment variable in the application. This updates the
[Environment] group in the metadata. This overrides to the Context
section from the application metadata. This option can be used multiple
times.

#+end_quote

*--unset-env=VAR*

#+begin_quote
Unset an environment variable in the application. This updates the
unset-environment entry in the [Context] group of the metadata. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--env-fd=*/FD/

#+begin_quote
Read environment variables from the file descriptor /FD/, and set them
as if via *--env*. This can be used to avoid environment variables and
their values becoming visible to other users.

Each environment variable is in the form /VAR/=/VALUE/ followed by a
zero byte. This is the same format used by env -0 and /proc/*/environ.

#+end_quote

*--own-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to own the well known name NAME on the session
bus. If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to own all matching
names. This updates the [Session Bus Policy] group in the metadata. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to talk to the well known name NAME on the session
bus. If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to talk to all
matching names. This updates the [Session Bus Policy] group in the
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--system-own-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to own the well known name NAME on the system bus.
If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to own all matching
names. This updates the [System Bus Policy] group in the metadata. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--system-talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to talk to the well known name NAME on the system
bus. If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to talk to all
matching names. This updates the [System Bus Policy] group in the
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--persist=FILENAME*

#+begin_quote
If the application doesnt have access to the real homedir, make the
(homedir-relative) path FILENAME a bind mount to the corresponding path
in the per-application directory, allowing that location to be used for
persistent data. This updates the [Context] group in the metadata. This
option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--runtime=RUNTIME*, *--sdk=SDK*

#+begin_quote
Change the runtime or sdk used by the app to the specified partial ref.
Unspecified parts of the ref are taken from the old values or defaults.

#+end_quote

*--metadata=GROUP=KEY[=VALUE]*

#+begin_quote
Set a generic key in the metadata file. If value is left out it will be
set to "true".

#+end_quote

*--extension=NAME=VARIABLE[=VALUE]*

#+begin_quote
Add extension point info. See the documentation for
*flatpak-metadata*(5) for the possible values of /VARIABLE/ and /VALUE/.

#+end_quote

*--remove-extension=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Remove extension point info.

#+end_quote

*--extension-priority=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Set the priority (library override order) of the extension point. Only
useful for extensions. 0 is the default, and higher value means higher
priority.

#+end_quote

*--extra-data=NAME:SHA256:DOWNLOAD-SIZE:INSTALL-SIZE:URL*

#+begin_quote
Adds information about extra data uris to the app. These will be
downloaded and verified by the client when the app is installed and
placed in the /app/extra directory. You can also supply an
/app/bin/apply_extra script that will be run after the files are
downloaded.

#+end_quote

*--no-exports*

#+begin_quote
Dont look for exports in the build.

#+end_quote

*--no-inherit-permissions*

#+begin_quote
Dont inherit runtime permissions in the app.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak build-finish /build/my-app --socket=x11 --share=ipc*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
Exporting share/applications/gnome-calculator.desktop
Exporting share/dbus-1/services/org.gnome.Calculator.SearchProvider.service
More than one executable
Using gcalccmd as command
Please review the exported files and the metadata
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak-build-init*(1), *flatpak-build*(1),
*flatpak-build-export*(1)
