#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-build-update-repo.1
* NAME
flatpak-build-update-repo - Create a repository from a build directory

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak build-update-repo* [OPTION...] LOCATION

* DESCRIPTION
Updates repository metadata for the repository at LOCATION. This command
generates an OSTree summary file that lists the contents of the
repository. The summary is used by flatpak remote-ls and other commands
to display the contents of remote repositories.

After this command, LOCATION can be used as the repository location for
flatpak remote-add, either by exporting it over http, or directly with a
file: url.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*--redirect-url=URL*

#+begin_quote
Redirect this repo to a new URL.

#+end_quote

*--title=TITLE*

#+begin_quote
A title for the repository, e.g. for display in a UI. The title is
stored in the repository summary.

#+end_quote

*--comment=COMMENT*

#+begin_quote
A single-line comment for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI. The
comment is stored in the repository summary.

#+end_quote

*--description=DESCRIPTION*

#+begin_quote
A full-paragraph description for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.
The description is stored in the repository summary.

#+end_quote

*--homepage=URL*

#+begin_quote
URL for a website for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI. The url is
stored in the repository summary.

#+end_quote

*--icon=URL*

#+begin_quote
URL for an icon for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI. The url is
stored in the repository summary.

#+end_quote

*--default-branch=BRANCH*

#+begin_quote
A default branch for the repository, mainly for use in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-import=FILE*

#+begin_quote
Import a new default GPG public key from the given file.

#+end_quote

*--collection-id=COLLECTION-ID*

#+begin_quote
The globally unique identifier of the remote repository, to allow
mirrors to be grouped. This must be set to a globally unique reverse DNS
string if the repository is to be made publicly available. If a
collection ID is already set on an existing repository, this will update
it. If not specified, the existing collection ID will be left unchanged.

#+end_quote

*--deploy-collection-id*

#+begin_quote
Deploy the collection ID (set using *--collection-id*) in the static
remote configuration for all clients. This is irrevocable once published
in a repository. Use it to decide when to roll out a collection ID to
users of an existing repository. If constructing a new repository which
has a collection ID, you should typically always pass this option.

#+end_quote

*--deploy-sideload-collection-id*

#+begin_quote
This is similar to --deploy-collection-id, but it only applies the
deploy to clients newer than flatpak 1.7 which supports the new form of
sideloads.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-sign=KEYID*

#+begin_quote
Sign the commit with this GPG key. This option can be used multiple
times.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-homedir=PATH*

#+begin_quote
GPG Homedir to use when looking for keyrings

#+end_quote

*--generate-static-deltas*

#+begin_quote
Generate static deltas for all references. This generates from-empty and
delta static files that allow for faster download.

#+end_quote

*--static-delta-jobs=NUM-JOBS*

#+begin_quote
Limit the number of parallel jobs creating static deltas. The default is
the number of cpus.

#+end_quote

*--static-delta-ignore-ref=PATTERN*

#+begin_quote
Dont generate deltas for runtime or application id matching this
pattern. For instance, --static-delta-ignore-ref=*.Sources means there
will not be any deltas for source refs.

#+end_quote

*--prune*

#+begin_quote
Remove unreferenced objects in repo.

#+end_quote

*--prune-depth*

#+begin_quote
Only keep at most this number of old versions for any particular ref.
Default is -1 which means infinite.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*ostree*(1), *flatpak*(1), *flatpak-remote-ls*(1),
*flatpak-build-export*(1)
