#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-build-commit-from.1
* NAME
flatpak-build-commit-from - Create new commits based on existing one
(possibly from another repository)

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak build-commit-from* [OPTION...] DST-REPO DST-REF...

* DESCRIPTION
Creates new commits on the DST-REF branch in the DST-REPO, with the
contents (and most of the metadata) taken from another branch, either
from another repo, or from another branch in the same repository.

The collection ID set on DST-REPO (if set) will be used for the newly
created commits.

This command is very useful when you want to maintain a branch with a
clean history that has no unsigned or broken commits. For instance, you
can import the head from a different repository from an automatic
builder when youve verified that it worked. The new commit will have no
parents or signatures from the autobuilder, and can be properly signed
with the official key.

Any deltas that affect the original commit and that match parent commits
in the destination repository are copied and rewritten for the new
commit id.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*--src-repo=SRC-REPO*

#+begin_quote
The (local) repository to pull the source branch from. Defaults to the
destination repository.

#+end_quote

*--src-ref=SRC-REF*

#+begin_quote
The branch to use as the source for the new commit. Defaults to the same
as the destination ref, which is useful only if a different source repo
has been specified.

#+end_quote

*--extra-collection-id=COLLECTION-ID*

#+begin_quote
Add an extra collection-ref binding for this collection, in addition to
whatever would normally be added due to the destination repository
collection id. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--subset=SUBSET*

#+begin_quote
Mark the commit to be included in the named subset. This will cause the
commit to be put in the named subset summary (in addition to the main
one), allowing users to see only this subset instead of the whole repo.

#+end_quote

*--untrusted*

#+begin_quote
The source repostory is not trusted, all objects are copied (not
hardlinked) and all checksums are verified.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--subject=SUBJECT*

#+begin_quote
One line subject for the commit message. If not specified, will be taken
from the source commit.

#+end_quote

*-b*, *--body=BODY*

#+begin_quote
Full description for the commit message. If not specified, will be taken
from the source commit.

#+end_quote

*--update-appstream*

#+begin_quote
Update the appstream branch after the build.

#+end_quote

*--no-update-summary*

#+begin_quote
Dont update the summary file after the new commit is added. This means
the repository will not be useful for serving over http until
build-update-repo has been run. This is useful is you want to do
multiple repo operations before finally updating the summary.

#+end_quote

*--force*

#+begin_quote
Create new commit even if the content didnt change from the existing
branch head.

#+end_quote

*--disable-fsync*

#+begin_quote
Dont fsync when writing to the repository. This can result in data loss
in exceptional situations, but can improve performance when working with
temporary or test repositories.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-sign=KEYID*

#+begin_quote
Sign the commit with this GPG key. This option can be used multiple
times.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-homedir=PATH*

#+begin_quote
GPG Homedir to use when looking for keyrings

#+end_quote

*--end-of-life=REASON*

#+begin_quote
Mark build as end-of-life

#+end_quote

*--end-of-life-rebase=OLDID=NEWID*

#+begin_quote
Mark new refs as end-of-life. Unlike *--end-of-life*, this one takes an
ID that supersedes the current one. By the users request, the
application data may be preserved for the new application. Note, this is
actually a prefix match, so if you say org.the.app=org.new.app, then
something like org.the.app.Locale will be rebased to org.new.app.Locale.

#+end_quote

*--timestamp=TIMESTAMP*

#+begin_quote
Override the timestamp of the commit. Use an ISO 8601 formatted date, or
NOW for the current time

#+end_quote

*--disable-fsync*

#+begin_quote
Dont fsync when writing to the repository. This can result in data loss
in exceptional situations, but can improve performance when working with
temporary or test repositories.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
To revert a commit to the commit before:

*$ flatpak build-commit-from --timestamp=NOW
--src-ref=app/org.gnome.gedit/x86_64/master^ repo
app/org.gnome.gedit/x86_64/master*

* SEE ALSO
*ostree*(1), *flatpak*(1), *flatpak-build-init*(1), *flatpak-build*(1),
*flatpak-build-finish*(1), *flatpak-build-sign*(1),
*flatpak-build-update-repo*(1)
