#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-remote-modify.1
* NAME
flatpak-remote-modify - Modify a remote repository

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak remote-modify* [OPTION...] NAME

* DESCRIPTION
Modifies options for an existing remote repository in the flatpak
repository configuration. NAME is the name for the remote.

Unless overridden with the *--system*, *--user*, or *--installation*
options, this command uses either the default system-wide installation
or the per-user one, depending on which has the specified REMOTE.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Modify the per-user configuration.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Modify the default system-wide configuration.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Modify a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined
in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using *--installation=default* is
equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--no-gpg-verify*

#+begin_quote
Disable GPG verification for the added remote.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-verify*

#+begin_quote
Enable GPG verification for the added remote.

#+end_quote

*--prio=PRIO*

#+begin_quote
Set the priority for the remote. Default is 1, higher is more
prioritized. This is mainly used for graphical installation tools.

#+end_quote

*--subset=SUBSET*

#+begin_quote
Limit the refs available from the remote to those that are part of the
named subset.

#+end_quote

*--no-enumerate*

#+begin_quote
Mark the remote as not enumerated. This means the remote will not be
used to list applications, for instance in graphical installation tools.
It will also not be used for runtime dependency resolution (as with
*--no-use-for-deps*).

#+end_quote

*--no-use-for-deps*

#+begin_quote
Mark the remote as not to be used for automatic runtime dependency
resolution.

#+end_quote

*--disable*

#+begin_quote
Disable the remote. Disabled remotes will not be automatically updated
from.

#+end_quote

*--enable*

#+begin_quote
Enable the remote.

#+end_quote

*--enumerate*

#+begin_quote
Mark the remote as enumerated. This means the remote will be used to
list applications, for instance in graphical installation tools.

#+end_quote

*--use-for-deps*

#+begin_quote
Mark the remote as to be used for automatic runtime dependency
resolution.

#+end_quote

*--title=TITLE*

#+begin_quote
A title for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--comment=COMMENT*

#+begin_quote
A single-line comment for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--description=DESCRIPTION*

#+begin_quote
A full-paragraph description for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--homepage=URL*

#+begin_quote
URL for a website for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--icon=URL*

#+begin_quote
URL for an icon for the remote, e.g. for display in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--default-branch=BRANCH*

#+begin_quote
A default branch for the remote, mainly for use in a UI.

#+end_quote

*--collection-id=COLLECTION-ID*

#+begin_quote
The globally unique identifier of the remote repository, to allow
mirrors to be grouped. This must only be set to the collection ID
provided by the remote, and must not be set if the remote does not
provide a collection ID.

#+end_quote

*--url=URL*

#+begin_quote
Set a new URL.

#+end_quote

*--update-metadata*

#+begin_quote
Update the remotes extra metadata from the OSTree repositorys summary
file. Only xa.title and xa.default-branch are supported at the moment.

#+end_quote

*--no-filter*, *--filter=FILE*

#+begin_quote
Modify the path (or unset) for the local filter used for this remote.
See *flatpak-remote-add*(1) for details about the filter file format.

#+end_quote

*--gpg-import=FILE*

#+begin_quote
Import gpg keys from the specified keyring file as trusted for the new
remote. If the file is - the keyring is read from standard input.

#+end_quote

*--authenticator-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Specify the authenticator to use for the remote.

#+end_quote

*--authenticator-option=KEY=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Specify an authenticator option for the remote.

#+end_quote

*--authenticator-install*

#+begin_quote
Enable auto-installation of authenticator.

#+end_quote

*--no-authenticator-install*

#+begin_quote
Disable auto-installation of authenticator.

#+end_quote

*--follow-redirect*

#+begin_quote
Follow xa.redirect-url defined in the summary file.

#+end_quote

*--no-follow-redirect*

#+begin_quote
Do not follow xa.redirect-url defined in the summary file.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak --user remote-modify --no-gpg-verify test-repo*

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak-remote-add*(1), *flatpak-remote-delete*(1),
*flatpak-remotes*(1)
