#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-override.1
* NAME
flatpak-override - Override application requirements

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak override* [OPTION...] [APP]

* DESCRIPTION
Overrides the application specified runtime requirements. This can be
used to grant a sandboxed application more or less resources than it
requested.

By default the application gets access to the resources it requested
when it is started. But the user can override it on a particular
instance by specifying extra arguments to *flatpak run*, or every time
by using *flatpak override*.

If the application ID APP is not specified then the overrides affect all
applications, but the per-application overrides can override the global
overrides.

Unless overridden with the *--user* or *--installation* options, this
command changes the default system-wide installation.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Update a per-user installation.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Update the default system-wide installation.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Updates a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those defined
in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using *--installation=default* is
equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--share=SUBSYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Share a subsystem with the host session. This overrides the Context
section from the application metadata. SUBSYSTEM must be one of:
network, ipc. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--unshare=SUBSYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Dont share a subsystem with the host session. This overrides the Context
section from the application metadata. SUBSYSTEM must be one of:
network, ipc. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--socket=SOCKET*

#+begin_quote
Expose a well-known socket to the application. This overrides to the
Context section from the application metadata. SOCKET must be one of:
x11, wayland, fallback-x11, pulseaudio, system-bus, session-bus,
ssh-auth, pcsc, cups, gpg-agent. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--nosocket=SOCKET*

#+begin_quote
Dont expose a well-known socket to the application. This overrides to
the Context section from the application metadata. SOCKET must be one
of: x11, wayland, fallback-x11, pulseaudio, system-bus, session-bus,
ssh-auth, pcsc, cups, gpg-agent. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--device=DEVICE*

#+begin_quote
Expose a device to the application. This overrides to the Context
section from the application metadata. DEVICE must be one of: dri, kvm,
shm, all. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--nodevice=DEVICE*

#+begin_quote
Dont expose a device to the application. This overrides to the Context
section from the application metadata. DEVICE must be one of: dri, kvm,
shm, all. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--allow=FEATURE*

#+begin_quote
Allow access to a specific feature. This updates the [Context] group in
the metadata. FEATURE must be one of: devel, multiarch, bluetooth,
canbus, per-app-dev-shm. This option can be used multiple times.

See *flatpak-build-finish*(1) for the meaning of the various features.

#+end_quote

*--disallow=FEATURE*

#+begin_quote
Disallow access to a specific feature. This updates the [Context] group
in the metadata. FEATURE must be one of: devel, multiarch, bluetooth,
canbus, per-app-dev-shm. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--filesystem=FILESYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application access to a subset of the filesystem. This
overrides to the Context section from the application metadata.
FILESYSTEM can be one of: home, host, host-os, host-etc, xdg-desktop,
xdg-documents, xdg-download, xdg-music, xdg-pictures, xdg-public-share,
xdg-templates, xdg-videos, xdg-run, xdg-config, xdg-cache, xdg-data, an
absolute path, or a homedir-relative path like ~/dir or paths relative
to the xdg dirs, like xdg-download/subdir. The optional :ro suffix
indicates that the location will be read-only. The optional :create
suffix indicates that the location will be read-write and created if it
doesnt exist. This option can be used multiple times. See the "[Context]
filesystems" list in *flatpak-metadata*(5) for details of the meanings
of these filesystems.

#+end_quote

*--nofilesystem=FILESYSTEM*

#+begin_quote
Undo the effect of a previous *--filesystem=*FILESYSTEM in the apps
manifest or a lower-precedence layer of overrides, and/or remove a
previous *--filesystem=*FILESYSTEM from this layer of overrides. This
overrides the Context section of the application metadata. FILESYSTEM
can take the same values as for *--filesystem*, but the :ro and :create
suffixes are not used here. This option can be used multiple times.

This option does not prevent access to a more narrowly-scoped
*--filesystem*. For example, if an application has the equivalent of
*--filesystem=xdg-config/MyApp* in its manifest or as a system-wide
override, and flatpak override --user --nofilesystem=home as a per-user
override, then it will be prevented from accessing most of the home
directory, but it will still be allowed to access
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/MyApp.

As a special case, *--nofilesystem=host:reset* will ignore all
*--filesystem* permissions inherited from the app manifest or a
lower-precedence layer of overrides, in addition to having the behaviour
of *--nofilesystem=host*.

#+end_quote

*--add-policy=SUBSYSTEM.KEY=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Add generic policy option. For example, "--add-policy=subsystem.key=v1
--add-policy=subsystem.key=v2" would map to this metadata:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
[Policy subsystem]
key=v1;v2;
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--remove-policy=SUBSYSTEM.KEY=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Remove generic policy option. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--env=VAR=VALUE*

#+begin_quote
Set an environment variable in the application. This overrides to the
Context section from the application metadata. This option can be used
multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--unset-env=VAR*

#+begin_quote
Unset an environment variable in the application. This overrides the
unset-environment entry in the [Context] group of the metadata, and the
[Environment] group. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--env-fd=*/FD/

#+begin_quote
Read environment variables from the file descriptor /FD/, and set them
as if via *--env*. This can be used to avoid environment variables and
their values becoming visible to other users.

Each environment variable is in the form /VAR/=/VALUE/ followed by a
zero byte. This is the same format used by env -0 and /proc/*/environ.

#+end_quote

*--own-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to own the well-known name NAME on the session
bus. This overrides to the Context section from the application
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to talk to the well-known name NAME on the session
bus. This overrides to the Context section from the application
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--no-talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Dont allow the application to talk to the well-known name NAME on the
session bus. This overrides to the Context section from the application
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--system-own-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to own the well known name NAME on the system bus.
If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to own all matching
names. This overrides to the Context section from the application
metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--system-talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Allow the application to talk to the well known name NAME on the system
bus. If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to talk to all
matching names. This overrides to the Context section from the
application metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--system-no-talk-name=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Dont allow the application to talk to the well known name NAME on the
system bus. If NAME ends with .*, it allows the application to talk to
all matching names. This overrides to the Context section from the
application metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--persist=FILENAME*

#+begin_quote
If the application doesnt have access to the real homedir, make the
(homedir-relative) path FILENAME a bind mount to the corresponding path
in the per-application directory, allowing that location to be used for
persistent data. This overrides to the Context section from the
application metadata. This option can be used multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--reset*

#+begin_quote
Remove overrides. If an APP is given, remove the overrides for that
application, otherwise remove the global overrides.

#+end_quote

*--show*

#+begin_quote
Shows overrides. If an APP is given, shows the overrides for that
application, otherwise shows the global overrides.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak override --nosocket=wayland org.gnome.gedit*

*$ flatpak override --filesystem=home org.mozilla.Firefox*

* SEE ALSO
*flatpak*(1), *flatpak-run*(1)
