#+TITLE: Manpages - flatpak-uninstall.1
* NAME
flatpak-uninstall - Uninstall an application or runtime

* SYNOPSIS
*flatpak uninstall* [OPTION...] [REF...]

* DESCRIPTION
Uninstalls an application or runtime. REF is a reference to the
application or runtime to uninstall.

Each REF argument is a full or partial identifier in the flatpak ref
format, which looks like "(app|runtime)/ID/ARCH/BRANCH". All elements
except ID are optional and can be left out, including the slashes, so
most of the time you need only specify ID. Any part left out will be
matched against what is installed, and if there are multiple matches you
will be prompted to choose between them. You will also be prompted if
REF doesnt match any installed ref exactly but is similar (e.g. "gedit"
is similar to "org.gnome.gedit"), but this fuzzy matching behavior is
disabled if REF contains any slashes or periods.

By default this looks for both installed apps and runtimes with the
given REF, but you can limit this by using the *--app* or *--runtime*
option, or by supplying the initial element in the REF.

Normally, this command removes the ref for this application/runtime from
the local OSTree repository and purges any objects that are no longer
needed to free up disk space. If the same application is later
reinstalled, the objects will be pulled from the remote repository
again. The *--keep-ref* option can be used to prevent this.

When *--delete-data* is specified while removing an app, its data
directory in ~/.var/app and any permissions it might have are removed.
When *--delete-data* is used without a REF, all unowned app data is
removed.

Unless overridden with the *--system*, *--user*, or *--installation*
options, this command searches both the system-wide installation and the
per-user one for REF and errors out if it exists in more than one.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show help options and exit.

#+end_quote

*--keep-ref*

#+begin_quote
Keep the ref for the application and the objects belonging to it in the
local repository.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
Uninstalls from a per-user installation.

#+end_quote

*--system*

#+begin_quote
Uninstalls from the default system-wide installation.

#+end_quote

*--installation=NAME*

#+begin_quote
Uninstalls from a system-wide installation specified by NAME among those
defined in /etc/flatpak/installations.d/. Using *--installation=default*
is equivalent to using *--system*.

#+end_quote

*--arch=ARCH*

#+begin_quote
The architecture to uninstall, instead of the architecture of the host
system. See *flatpak --supported-arches* for architectures supported by
the host.

#+end_quote

*--all*

#+begin_quote
Remove all refs on the system.

#+end_quote

*--unused*

#+begin_quote
Remove unused refs on the system.

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--assumeyes*

#+begin_quote
Automatically answer yes to all questions. This is useful for
automation.

#+end_quote

*--noninteractive*

#+begin_quote
Produce minimal output and avoid most questions. This is suitable for
use in non-interactive situations, e.g. in a build script.

#+end_quote

*--app*

#+begin_quote
Only look for an app with the given name.

#+end_quote

*--runtime*

#+begin_quote
Only look for a runtime with the given name.

#+end_quote

*--no-related*

#+begin_quote
Dont uninstall related extensions, such as the locale data.

#+end_quote

*--force-remove*

#+begin_quote
Remove files even if theyre in use by a running application.

#+end_quote

*--delete-data*

#+begin_quote
Remove app data in ~/.var/app and in the permission store.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

*--ostree-verbose*

#+begin_quote
Print OSTree debug information during command processing.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*$ flatpak --user uninstall org.gnome.gedit*
