#+TITLE: Manpages - git-multi-pack-index.1
* NAME
git-multi-pack-index - Write and verify multi-pack-indexes

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git multi-pack-index [--object-dir=<dir>] [--[no-]bitmap] <sub-command>
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Write or verify a multi-pack-index (MIDX) file.

* OPTIONS
--object-dir=<dir>

#+begin_quote
Use given directory for the location of Git objects. We check
*<dir>/packs/multi-pack-index* for the current MIDX file, and
*<dir>/packs* for the pack-files to index.

*<dir>* must be an alternate of the current repository.

#+end_quote

--[no-]progress

#+begin_quote
Turn progress on/off explicitly. If neither is specified, progress is
shown if standard error is connected to a terminal. Supported by
sub-commands *write*, *verify*, *expire*, and `repack.

#+end_quote

The following subcommands are available:

write

#+begin_quote
Write a new MIDX file. The following options are available for the
*write* sub-command:

--preferred-pack=<pack>

#+begin_quote
Optionally specify the tie-breaking pack used when multiple packs
contain the same object. *<pack>* must contain at least one object. If
not given, ties are broken in favor of the pack with the lowest mtime.

#+end_quote

--[no-]bitmap

#+begin_quote
Control whether or not a multi-pack bitmap is written.

#+end_quote

--stdin-packs

#+begin_quote
Write a multi-pack index containing only the set of line-delimited pack
index basenames provided over stdin.

#+end_quote

--refs-snapshot=<path>

#+begin_quote
With *--bitmap*, optionally specify a file which contains a "refs
snapshot" taken prior to repacking.

A reference snapshot is composed of line-delimited OIDs corresponding to
the reference tips, usually taken by *git repack* prior to generating a
new pack. A line may optionally start with a *+* character to indicate
that the reference which corresponds to that OID is "preferred" (see
*git-config*(1)s *pack.preferBitmapTips*.)

The file given at *<path>* is expected to be readable, and can contain
duplicates. (If a given OID is given more than once, it is marked as
preferred if at least one instance of it begins with the special *+*
marker).

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

verify

#+begin_quote
Verify the contents of the MIDX file.

#+end_quote

expire

#+begin_quote
Delete the pack-files that are tracked by the MIDX file, but have no
objects referenced by the MIDX (with the exception of *.keep* packs and
cruft packs). Rewrite the MIDX file afterward to remove all references
to these pack-files.

#+end_quote

repack

#+begin_quote
Create a new pack-file containing objects in small pack-files referenced
by the multi-pack-index. If the size given by the *--batch-size=<size>*
argument is zero, then create a pack containing all objects referenced
by the multi-pack-index. For a non-zero batch size, Select the
pack-files by examining packs from oldest-to-newest, computing the
"expected size" by counting the number of objects in the pack referenced
by the multi-pack-index, then divide by the total number of objects in
the pack and multiply by the pack size. We select packs with expected
size below the batch size until the set of packs have total expected
size at least the batch size, or all pack-files are considered. If only
one pack-file is selected, then do nothing. If a new pack-file is
created, rewrite the multi-pack-index to reference the new pack-file. A
later run of /git multi-pack-index expire/ will delete the pack-files
that were part of this batch.

If *repack.packKeptObjects* is *false*, then any pack-files with an
associated *.keep* file will not be selected for the batch to repack.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES

#+begin_quote
路

Write a MIDX file for the packfiles in the current *.git* directory.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git multi-pack-index write
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Write a MIDX file for the packfiles in the current *.git* directory with
a corresponding bitmap.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git multi-pack-index write --preferred-pack=<pack> --bitmap
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Write a MIDX file for the packfiles in an alternate object store.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git multi-pack-index --object-dir <alt> write
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Verify the MIDX file for the packfiles in the current *.git* directory.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git multi-pack-index verify
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
See *The Multi-Pack-Index Design Document*[1] and *gitformat-pack*(5)
for more information on the multi-pack-index feature and its file
format.

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite

* NOTES
-  1. :: The Multi-Pack-Index Design Document

  file:///nix/store/9xdnzfl42isjgsn1mnxyjdmspakf8ayi-git-2.46.1-doc/share/doc/git/technical/multi-pack-index.html
