#+TITLE: Manpages - git-am.1
* NAME
git-am - Apply a series of patches from a mailbox

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git am [--signoff] [--keep] [--[no-]keep-cr] [--[no-]utf8] [--no-verify]
         [--[no-]3way] [--interactive] [--committer-date-is-author-date]
         [--ignore-date] [--ignore-space-change | --ignore-whitespace]
         [--whitespace=<action>] [-C<n>] [-p<n>] [--directory=<dir>]
         [--exclude=<path>] [--include=<path>] [--reject] [-q | --quiet]
         [--[no-]scissors] [-S[<keyid>]] [--patch-format=<format>]
         [--quoted-cr=<action>]
         [--empty=(stop|drop|keep)]
         [(<mbox> | <Maildir>)...]
git am (--continue | --skip | --abort | --quit | --retry | --show-current-patch[=(diff|raw)] | --allow-empty)
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Splits mail messages in a mailbox into commit log messages, authorship
information, and patches, and applies them to the current branch. You
could think of it as a reverse operation of *git-format-patch*(1) run on
a branch with a straight history without merges.

* OPTIONS
(<mbox>|<Maildir>)...

#+begin_quote
The list of mailbox files to read patches from. If you do not supply
this argument, the command reads from the standard input. If you supply
directories, they will be treated as Maildirs.

#+end_quote

-s, --signoff

#+begin_quote
Add a *Signed-off-by* trailer to the commit message, using the committer
identity of yourself. See the signoff option in *git-commit*(1) for more
information.

#+end_quote

-k, --keep

#+begin_quote
Pass *-k* flag to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)).

#+end_quote

--keep-non-patch

#+begin_quote
Pass *-b* flag to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)).

#+end_quote

--[no-]keep-cr

#+begin_quote
With *--keep-cr*, call /git mailsplit/ (see *git-mailsplit*(1)) with the
same option, to prevent it from stripping CR at the end of lines.
*am.keepcr* configuration variable can be used to specify the default
behaviour. *--no-keep-cr* is useful to override *am.keepcr*.

#+end_quote

-c, --scissors

#+begin_quote
Remove everything in body before a scissors line (see
*git-mailinfo*(1)). Can be activated by default using the
*mailinfo.scissors* configuration variable.

#+end_quote

--no-scissors

#+begin_quote
Ignore scissors lines (see *git-mailinfo*(1)).

#+end_quote

--quoted-cr=<action>

#+begin_quote
This flag will be passed down to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)).

#+end_quote

--empty=(drop|keep|stop)

#+begin_quote
How to handle an e-mail message lacking a patch:

*drop*

#+begin_quote
The e-mail message will be skipped.

#+end_quote

*keep*

#+begin_quote
An empty commit will be created, with the contents of the e-mail message
as its log.

#+end_quote

*stop*

#+begin_quote
The command will fail, stopping in the middle of the current *am*
session. This is the default behavior.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

-m, --message-id

#+begin_quote
Pass the *-m* flag to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)), so that
the Message-ID header is added to the commit message. The *am.messageid*
configuration variable can be used to specify the default behaviour.

#+end_quote

--no-message-id

#+begin_quote
Do not add the Message-ID header to the commit message. *no-message-id*
is useful to override *am.messageid*.

#+end_quote

-q, --quiet

#+begin_quote
Be quiet. Only print error messages.

#+end_quote

-u, --utf8

#+begin_quote
Pass *-u* flag to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)). The proposed
commit log message taken from the e-mail is re-coded into UTF-8 encoding
(configuration variable *i18n.commitEncoding* can be used to specify the
project's preferred encoding if it is not UTF-8).

This was optional in prior versions of git, but now it is the default.
You can use *--no-utf8* to override this.

#+end_quote

--no-utf8

#+begin_quote
Pass *-n* flag to /git mailinfo/ (see *git-mailinfo*(1)).

#+end_quote

-3, --3way, --no-3way

#+begin_quote
When the patch does not apply cleanly, fall back on 3-way merge if the
patch records the identity of blobs it is supposed to apply to and we
have those blobs available locally. *--no-3way* can be used to override
am.threeWay configuration variable. For more information, see
am.threeWay in *git-config*(1).

#+end_quote

--rerere-autoupdate, --no-rerere-autoupdate

#+begin_quote
After the rerere mechanism reuses a recorded resolution on the current
conflict to update the files in the working tree, allow it to also
update the index with the result of resolution. *--no-rerere-autoupdate*
is a good way to double-check what *rerere* did and catch potential
mismerges, before committing the result to the index with a separate
*git add*.

#+end_quote

--ignore-space-change, --ignore-whitespace, --whitespace=<action>,
-C<n>, -p<n>, --directory=<dir>, --exclude=<path>, --include=<path>,
--reject

#+begin_quote
These flags are passed to the /git apply/ (see *git-apply*(1)) program
that applies the patch.

Valid <action> for the *--whitespace* option are: *nowarn*, *warn*,
*fix*, *error*, and *error-all*.

#+end_quote

--patch-format

#+begin_quote
By default the command will try to detect the patch format
automatically. This option allows the user to bypass the automatic
detection and specify the patch format that the patch(es) should be
interpreted as. Valid formats are mbox, mboxrd, stgit, stgit-series, and
hg.

#+end_quote

-i, --interactive

#+begin_quote
Run interactively.

#+end_quote

-n, --no-verify

#+begin_quote
By default, the pre-applypatch and applypatch-msg hooks are run. When
any of *--no-verify* or *-n* is given, these are bypassed. See also
*githooks*(5).

#+end_quote

--committer-date-is-author-date

#+begin_quote
By default the command records the date from the e-mail message as the
commit author date, and uses the time of commit creation as the
committer date. This allows the user to lie about the committer date by
using the same value as the author date.

#+end_quote

--ignore-date

#+begin_quote
By default the command records the date from the e-mail message as the
commit author date, and uses the time of commit creation as the
committer date. This allows the user to lie about the author date by
using the same value as the committer date.

#+end_quote

--skip

#+begin_quote
Skip the current patch. This is only meaningful when restarting an
aborted patch.

#+end_quote

-S[<keyid>], --gpg-sign[=<keyid>], --no-gpg-sign

#+begin_quote
GPG-sign commits. The *keyid* argument is optional and defaults to the
committer identity; if specified, it must be stuck to the option without
a space. *--no-gpg-sign* is useful to countermand both *commit.gpgSign*
configuration variable, and earlier *--gpg-sign*.

#+end_quote

--continue, -r, --resolved

#+begin_quote
After a patch failure (e.g. attempting to apply conflicting patch), the
user has applied it by hand and the index file stores the result of the
application. Make a commit using the authorship and commit log extracted
from the e-mail message and the current index file, and continue.

#+end_quote

--resolvemsg=<msg>

#+begin_quote
When a patch failure occurs, <msg> will be printed to the screen before
exiting. This overrides the standard message informing you to use
*--continue* or *--skip* to handle the failure. This is solely for
internal use between /git rebase/ and /git am/.

#+end_quote

--abort

#+begin_quote
Restore the original branch and abort the patching operation. Revert the
contents of files involved in the am operation to their pre-am state.

#+end_quote

--quit

#+begin_quote
Abort the patching operation but keep HEAD and the index untouched.

#+end_quote

--retry

#+begin_quote
Try to apply the last conflicting patch again. This is generally only
useful for passing extra options to the retry attempt (e.g., *--3way*),
since otherwise you'll just see the same failure again.

#+end_quote

--show-current-patch[=(diff|raw)]

#+begin_quote
Show the message at which *git am* has stopped due to conflicts. If
*raw* is specified, show the raw contents of the e-mail message; if
*diff*, show the diff portion only. Defaults to *raw*.

#+end_quote

--allow-empty

#+begin_quote
After a patch failure on an input e-mail message lacking a patch, create
an empty commit with the contents of the e-mail message as its log
message.

#+end_quote

* DISCUSSION
The commit author name is taken from the "From: " line of the message,
and commit author date is taken from the "Date: " line of the message.
The "Subject: " line is used as the title of the commit, after stripping
common prefix "[PATCH <anything>]". The "Subject: " line is supposed to
concisely describe what the commit is about in one line of text.

"From: ", "Date: ", and "Subject: " lines starting the body override the
respective commit author name and title values taken from the headers.

The commit message is formed by the title taken from the "Subject: ", a
blank line and the body of the message up to where the patch begins.
Excess whitespace at the end of each line is automatically stripped.

The patch is expected to be inline, directly following the message. Any
line that is of the form:

#+begin_quote
·

three-dashes and end-of-line, or

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

a line that begins with "diff -", or

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

a line that begins with "Index: "

#+end_quote

is taken as the beginning of a patch, and the commit log message is
terminated before the first occurrence of such a line.

When initially invoking *git am*, you give it the names of the mailboxes
to process. Upon seeing the first patch that does not apply, it aborts
in the middle. You can recover from this in one of two ways:

#+begin_quote
1.

skip the current patch by re-running the command with the *--skip*
option.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

hand resolve the conflict in the working directory, and update the index
file to bring it into a state that the patch should have produced. Then
run the command with the *--continue* option.

#+end_quote

The command refuses to process new mailboxes until the current operation
is finished, so if you decide to start over from scratch, run *git am
--abort* before running the command with mailbox names.

Before any patches are applied, ORIG_HEAD is set to the tip of the
current branch. This is useful if you have problems with multiple
commits, like running /git am/ on the wrong branch or an error in the
commits that is more easily fixed by changing the mailbox (e.g. errors
in the "From:" lines).

* HOOKS
This command can run *applypatch-msg*, *pre-applypatch*, and
*post-applypatch* hooks. See *githooks*(5) for more information.

* CONFIGURATION
Everything below this line in this section is selectively included from
the *git-config*(1) documentation. The content is the same as what's
found there:

am.keepcr

#+begin_quote
If true, git-am will call git-mailsplit for patches in mbox format with
parameter *--keep-cr*. In this case git-mailsplit will not remove *\r*
from lines ending with *\r\n*. Can be overridden by giving
*--no-keep-cr* from the command line. See *git-am*(1),
*git-mailsplit*(1).

#+end_quote

am.threeWay

#+begin_quote
By default, *git am* will fail if the patch does not apply cleanly. When
set to true, this setting tells *git am* to fall back on 3-way merge if
the patch records the identity of blobs it is supposed to apply to and
we have those blobs available locally (equivalent to giving the *--3way*
option from the command line). Defaults to *false*. See *git-am*(1).

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*git-apply*(1), *git-format-patch*(1).

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite
