#+TITLE: Manpages - git-send-pack.1
* NAME
git-send-pack - Push objects over Git protocol to another repository

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git send-pack [--mirror] [--dry-run] [--force]
                [--receive-pack=<git-receive-pack>]
                [--verbose] [--thin] [--atomic]
                [--[no-]signed | --signed=(true|false|if-asked)]
                [<host>:]<directory> (--all | <ref>...)
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Usually you would want to use /git push/, which is a higher-level
wrapper of this command, instead. See *git-push*(1).

Invokes /git-receive-pack/ on a possibly remote repository, and updates
it from the current repository, sending named refs.

* OPTIONS
--receive-pack=<git-receive-pack>

#+begin_quote
Path to the /git-receive-pack/ program on the remote end. Sometimes
useful when pushing to a remote repository over ssh, and you do not have
the program in a directory on the default $PATH.

#+end_quote

--exec=<git-receive-pack>

#+begin_quote
Same as --receive-pack=<git-receive-pack>.

#+end_quote

--all

#+begin_quote
Instead of explicitly specifying which refs to update, update all heads
that locally exist.

#+end_quote

--stdin

#+begin_quote
Take the list of refs from stdin, one per line. If there are refs
specified on the command line in addition to this option, then the refs
from stdin are processed after those on the command line.

If *--stateless-rpc* is specified together with this option then the
list of refs must be in packet format (pkt-line). Each ref must be in a
separate packet, and the list must end with a flush packet.

#+end_quote

--dry-run

#+begin_quote
Do everything except actually send the updates.

#+end_quote

--force

#+begin_quote
Usually, the command refuses to update a remote ref that is not an
ancestor of the local ref used to overwrite it. This flag disables the
check. This means that the remote repository can lose commits; use it
with care.

#+end_quote

--verbose

#+begin_quote
Run verbosely.

#+end_quote

--thin

#+begin_quote
Send a "thin" pack, which records objects in deltified form based on
objects not included in the pack to reduce network traffic.

#+end_quote

--atomic

#+begin_quote
Use an atomic transaction for updating the refs. If any of the refs
fails to update then the entire push will fail without changing any
refs.

#+end_quote

--[no-]signed, --signed=(true|false|if-asked)

#+begin_quote
GPG-sign the push request to update refs on the receiving side, to allow
it to be checked by the hooks and/or be logged. If *false* or
*--no-signed*, no signing will be attempted. If *true* or *--signed*,
the push will fail if the server does not support signed pushes. If set
to *if-asked*, sign if and only if the server supports signed pushes.
The push will also fail if the actual call to *gpg --sign* fails. See
*git-receive-pack*(1) for the details on the receiving end.

#+end_quote

--push-option=<string>

#+begin_quote
Pass the specified string as a push option for consumption by hooks on
the server side. If the server doesn't support push options, error out.
See *git-push*(1) and *githooks*(5) for details.

#+end_quote

<host>

#+begin_quote
A remote host to house the repository. When this part is specified,
/git-receive-pack/ is invoked via ssh.

#+end_quote

<directory>

#+begin_quote
The repository to update.

#+end_quote

<ref>...

#+begin_quote
The remote refs to update.

#+end_quote

* SPECIFYING THE REFS
There are three ways to specify which refs to update on the remote end.

With the *--all* flag, all refs that exist locally are transferred to
the remote side. You cannot specify any /<ref>/ if you use this flag.

Without *--all* and without any /<ref>/, the heads that exist both on
the local side and on the remote side are updated.

When one or more /<ref>/ are specified explicitly (whether on the
command line or via *--stdin*), it can be either a single pattern, or a
pair of such patterns separated by a colon ":" (this means that a ref
name cannot have a colon in it). A single pattern /<name>/ is just
shorthand for /<name>:<name>/.

Each pattern pair consists of the source side (before the colon) and the
destination side (after the colon). The ref to be pushed is determined
by finding a match that matches the source side, and where it is pushed
is determined by using the destination side. The rules used to match a
ref are the same rules used by /git rev-parse/ to resolve a symbolic ref
name. See *git-rev-parse*(1).

#+begin_quote
·

It is an error if <src> does not match exactly one of the local refs.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

It is an error if <dst> matches more than one remote ref.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If <dst> does not match any remote ref, either

#+begin_quote
·

it has to start with "refs/"; <dst> is used as the destination literally
in this case.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

<src> == <dst> and the ref that matched the <src> must not exist in the
set of remote refs; the ref matched <src> locally is used as the name of
the destination.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

Without *--force*, the <src> ref is stored at the remote only if <dst>
does not exist, or <dst> is a proper subset (i.e. an ancestor) of <src>.
This check, known as the "fast-forward check", is performed to avoid
accidentally overwriting the remote ref and losing other people's
commits from there.

With *--force*, the fast-forward check is disabled for all refs.

Optionally, a <ref> parameter can be prefixed with a plus /+/ sign to
disable the fast-forward check only on that ref.

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite
