#+TITLE: Manpages - git-cherry-pick.1
* NAME
git-cherry-pick - Apply the changes introduced by some existing commits

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git cherry-pick [--edit] [-n] [-m <parent-number>] [-s] [-x] [--ff]
                  [-S[<keyid>]] <commit>...
git cherry-pick (--continue | --skip | --abort | --quit)
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Given one or more existing commits, apply the change each one
introduces, recording a new commit for each. This requires your working
tree to be clean (no modifications from the HEAD commit).

When it is not obvious how to apply a change, the following happens:

#+begin_quote
1.

The current branch and *HEAD* pointer stay at the last commit
successfully made.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

The *CHERRY_PICK_HEAD* ref is set to point at the commit that introduced
the change that is difficult to apply.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

Paths in which the change applied cleanly are updated both in the index
file and in your working tree.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

For conflicting paths, the index file records up to three versions, as
described in the "TRUE MERGE" section of *git-merge*(1). The working
tree files will include a description of the conflict bracketed by the
usual conflict markers *<<<<<<<* and *>>>>>>>*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
5.

No other modifications are made.

#+end_quote

See *git-merge*(1) for some hints on resolving such conflicts.

* OPTIONS
<commit>...

#+begin_quote
Commits to cherry-pick. For a more complete list of ways to spell
commits, see *gitrevisions*(7). Sets of commits can be passed but no
traversal is done by default, as if the *--no-walk* option was
specified, see *git-rev-list*(1). Note that specifying a range will feed
all <commit>... arguments to a single revision walk (see a later example
that uses /maint master..next/).

#+end_quote

-e, --edit

#+begin_quote
With this option, /git cherry-pick/ will let you edit the commit message
prior to committing.

#+end_quote

--cleanup=<mode>

#+begin_quote
This option determines how the commit message will be cleaned up before
being passed on to the commit machinery. See *git-commit*(1) for more
details. In particular, if the /<mode>/ is given a value of *scissors*,
scissors will be appended to *MERGE_MSG* before being passed on in the
case of a conflict.

#+end_quote

-x

#+begin_quote
When recording the commit, append a line that says "(cherry picked from
commit ...)" to the original commit message in order to indicate which
commit this change was cherry-picked from. This is done only for cherry
picks without conflicts. Do not use this option if you are
cherry-picking from your private branch because the information is
useless to the recipient. If on the other hand you are cherry-picking
between two publicly visible branches (e.g. backporting a fix to a
maintenance branch for an older release from a development branch),
adding this information can be useful.

#+end_quote

-r

#+begin_quote
It used to be that the command defaulted to do *-x* described above, and
*-r* was to disable it. Now the default is not to do *-x* so this option
is a no-op.

#+end_quote

-m <parent-number>, --mainline <parent-number>

#+begin_quote
Usually you cannot cherry-pick a merge because you do not know which
side of the merge should be considered the mainline. This option
specifies the parent number (starting from 1) of the mainline and allows
cherry-pick to replay the change relative to the specified parent.

#+end_quote

-n, --no-commit

#+begin_quote
Usually the command automatically creates a sequence of commits. This
flag applies the changes necessary to cherry-pick each named commit to
your working tree and the index, without making any commit. In addition,
when this option is used, your index does not have to match the HEAD
commit. The cherry-pick is done against the beginning state of your
index.

This is useful when cherry-picking more than one commits effect to your
index in a row.

#+end_quote

-s, --signoff

#+begin_quote
Add a *Signed-off-by* trailer at the end of the commit message. See the
signoff option in *git-commit*(1) for more information.

#+end_quote

-S[<keyid>], --gpg-sign[=<keyid>], --no-gpg-sign

#+begin_quote
GPG-sign commits. The *keyid* argument is optional and defaults to the
committer identity; if specified, it must be stuck to the option without
a space. *--no-gpg-sign* is useful to countermand both *commit.gpgSign*
configuration variable, and earlier *--gpg-sign*.

#+end_quote

--ff

#+begin_quote
If the current HEAD is the same as the parent of the cherry-pick'ed
commit, then a fast forward to this commit will be performed.

#+end_quote

--allow-empty

#+begin_quote
By default, cherry-picking an empty commit will fail, indicating that an
explicit invocation of *git commit --allow-empty* is required. This
option overrides that behavior, allowing empty commits to be preserved
automatically in a cherry-pick. Note that when "--ff" is in effect,
empty commits that meet the "fast-forward" requirement will be kept even
without this option. Note also, that use of this option only keeps
commits that were initially empty (i.e. the commit recorded the same
tree as its parent). Commits which are made empty due to a previous
commit will cause the cherry-pick to fail. To force the inclusion of
those commits, use *--empty=keep*.

#+end_quote

--allow-empty-message

#+begin_quote
By default, cherry-picking a commit with an empty message will fail.
This option overrides that behavior, allowing commits with empty
messages to be cherry picked.

#+end_quote

--empty=(drop|keep|stop)

#+begin_quote
How to handle commits being cherry-picked that are redundant with
changes already in the current history.

*drop*

#+begin_quote
The commit will be dropped.

#+end_quote

*keep*

#+begin_quote
The commit will be kept. Implies *--allow-empty*.

#+end_quote

*stop*

#+begin_quote
The cherry-pick will stop when the commit is applied, allowing you to
examine the commit. This is the default behavior.

#+end_quote

Note that *--empty=drop* and *--empty=stop* only specify how to handle a
commit that was not initially empty, but rather became empty due to a
previous commit. Commits that were initially empty will still cause the
cherry-pick to fail unless one of *--empty=keep* or *--allow-empty* are
specified.

#+end_quote

--keep-redundant-commits

#+begin_quote
Deprecated synonym for *--empty=keep*.

#+end_quote

--strategy=<strategy>

#+begin_quote
Use the given merge strategy. Should only be used once. See the MERGE
STRATEGIES section in *git-merge*(1) for details.

#+end_quote

-X<option>, --strategy-option=<option>

#+begin_quote
Pass the merge strategy-specific option through to the merge strategy.
See *git-merge*(1) for details.

#+end_quote

--rerere-autoupdate, --no-rerere-autoupdate

#+begin_quote
After the rerere mechanism reuses a recorded resolution on the current
conflict to update the files in the working tree, allow it to also
update the index with the result of resolution. *--no-rerere-autoupdate*
is a good way to double-check what *rerere* did and catch potential
mismerges, before committing the result to the index with a separate
*git add*.

#+end_quote

* SEQUENCER SUBCOMMANDS
--continue

#+begin_quote
Continue the operation in progress using the information in
*.git/sequencer*. Can be used to continue after resolving conflicts in a
failed cherry-pick or revert.

#+end_quote

--skip

#+begin_quote
Skip the current commit and continue with the rest of the sequence.

#+end_quote

--quit

#+begin_quote
Forget about the current operation in progress. Can be used to clear the
sequencer state after a failed cherry-pick or revert.

#+end_quote

--abort

#+begin_quote
Cancel the operation and return to the pre-sequence state.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*git cherry-pick master*

#+begin_quote
Apply the change introduced by the commit at the tip of the master
branch and create a new commit with this change.

#+end_quote

*git cherry-pick ..master*, *git cherry-pick ^HEAD master*

#+begin_quote
Apply the changes introduced by all commits that are ancestors of master
but not of HEAD to produce new commits.

#+end_quote

*git cherry-pick maint next ^master*, *git cherry-pick maint
master..next*

#+begin_quote
Apply the changes introduced by all commits that are ancestors of maint
or next, but not master or any of its ancestors. Note that the latter
does not mean *maint* and everything between *master* and *next*;
specifically, *maint* will not be used if it is included in *master*.

#+end_quote

*git cherry-pick master~4 master~2*

#+begin_quote
Apply the changes introduced by the fifth and third last commits pointed
to by master and create 2 new commits with these changes.

#+end_quote

*git cherry-pick -n master~1 next*

#+begin_quote
Apply to the working tree and the index the changes introduced by the
second last commit pointed to by master and by the last commit pointed
to by next, but do not create any commit with these changes.

#+end_quote

*git cherry-pick --ff ..next*

#+begin_quote
If history is linear and HEAD is an ancestor of next, update the working
tree and advance the HEAD pointer to match next. Otherwise, apply the
changes introduced by those commits that are in next but not HEAD to the
current branch, creating a new commit for each new change.

#+end_quote

*git rev-list --reverse master -- README | git cherry-pick -n --stdin*

#+begin_quote
Apply the changes introduced by all commits on the master branch that
touched README to the working tree and index, so the result can be
inspected and made into a single new commit if suitable.

#+end_quote

The following sequence attempts to backport a patch, bails out because
the code the patch applies to has changed too much, and then tries
again, this time exercising more care about matching up context lines.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git cherry-pick topic^             (1)
$ git diff                           (2)
$ git cherry-pick --abort            (3)
$ git cherry-pick -Xpatience topic^  (4)
#+end_example

#+end_quote

| *1.* | apply the change that would be shown by *git show topic^*. In this example, the patch does not apply cleanly, so information about the conflict is written to the index and working tree and no new commit results. |
| *2.* | summarize changes to be reconciled                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| *3.* | cancel the cherry-pick. In other words, return to the pre-cherry-pick state, preserving any local modifications you had in the working tree.                                                                        |
| *4.* | try to apply the change introduced by *topic^* again, spending extra time to avoid mistakes based on incorrectly matching context lines.                                                                            |

* SEE ALSO
*git-revert*(1)

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite
