#+TITLE: Manpages - git-archimport.1
* NAME
git-archimport - Import a GNU Arch repository into Git

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git archimport [-h] [-v] [-o] [-a] [-f] [-T] [-D <depth>] [-t <tempdir>]
               <archive>/<branch>[:<git-branch>]...
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Imports a project from one or more GNU Arch repositories. It will follow
branches and repositories within the namespaces defined by the
<archive>/<branch> parameters supplied. If it cannot find the remote
branch a merge comes from it will just import it as a regular commit. If
it can find it, it will mark it as a merge whenever possible (see
discussion below).

The script expects you to provide the key roots where it can start the
import from an /initial import/ or /tag/ type of Arch commit. It will
follow and import new branches within the provided roots.

It expects to be dealing with one project only. If it sees branches that
have different roots, it will refuse to run. In that case, edit your
<archive>/<branch> parameters to define clearly the scope of the import.

/git archimport/ uses *tla* extensively in the background to access the
Arch repository. Make sure you have a recent version of *tla* available
in the path. *tla* must know about the repositories you pass to /git
archimport/.

For the initial import, /git archimport/ expects to find itself in an
empty directory. To follow the development of a project that uses Arch,
rerun /git archimport/ with the same parameters as the initial import to
perform incremental imports.

While /git archimport/ will try to create sensible branch names for the
archives that it imports, it is also possible to specify Git branch
names manually. To do so, write a Git branch name after each
<archive>/<branch> parameter, separated by a colon. This way, you can
shorten the Arch branch names and convert Arch jargon to Git jargon, for
example mapping a "PROJECT--devo--VERSION" branch to "master".

Associating multiple Arch branches to one Git branch is possible; the
result will make the most sense only if no commits are made to the first
branch, after the second branch is created. Still, this is useful to
convert Arch repositories that had been rotated periodically.

* MERGES
Patch merge data from Arch is used to mark merges in Git as well. Git
does not care much about tracking patches, and only considers a merge
when a branch incorporates all the commits since the point they forked.
The end result is that Git will have a good idea of how far branches
have diverged. So the import process does lose some patch-trading
metadata.

Fortunately, when you try and merge branches imported from Arch, Git
will find a good merge base, and it has a good chance of identifying
patches that have been traded out-of-sequence between the branches.

* OPTIONS
-h

#+begin_quote
Display usage.

#+end_quote

-v

#+begin_quote
Verbose output.

#+end_quote

-T

#+begin_quote
Many tags. Will create a tag for every commit, reflecting the commit
name in the Arch repository.

#+end_quote

-f

#+begin_quote
Use the fast patchset import strategy. This can be significantly faster
for large trees, but cannot handle directory renames or permissions
changes. The default strategy is slow and safe.

#+end_quote

-o

#+begin_quote
Use this for compatibility with old-style branch names used by earlier
versions of /git archimport/. Old-style branch names were
category--branch, whereas new-style branch names are
archive,category--branch--version. In both cases, names given on the
command-line will override the automatically-generated ones.

#+end_quote

-D <depth>

#+begin_quote
Follow merge ancestry and attempt to import trees that have been merged
from. Specify a depth greater than 1 if patch logs have been pruned.

#+end_quote

-a

#+begin_quote
Attempt to auto-register archives at *http://mirrors.sourcecontrol.net*
This is particularly useful with the -D option.

#+end_quote

-t <tmpdir>

#+begin_quote
Override the default tempdir.

#+end_quote

<archive>/<branch>

#+begin_quote
<archive>/<branch> identifier in a format that *tla log* understands.

#+end_quote

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite
