#+TITLE: Manpages - git-index-pack.1
* NAME
git-index-pack - Build pack index file for an existing packed archive

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
git index-pack [-v] [-o <index-file>] [--[no-]rev-index] <pack-file>
git index-pack --stdin [--fix-thin] [--keep] [-v] [-o <index-file>]
                  [--[no-]rev-index] [<pack-file>]
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Reads a packed archive (.pack) from the specified file, builds a pack
index file (.idx) for it, and optionally writes a reverse-index (.rev)
for the specified pack. The packed archive, together with the pack
index, can then be placed in the objects/pack/ directory of a Git
repository.

* OPTIONS
-v

#+begin_quote
Be verbose about what is going on, including progress status.

#+end_quote

-o <index-file>

#+begin_quote
Write the generated pack index into the specified file. Without this
option the name of pack index file is constructed from the name of
packed archive file by replacing .pack with .idx (and the program fails
if the name of packed archive does not end with .pack).

#+end_quote

--[no-]rev-index

#+begin_quote
When this flag is provided, generate a reverse index (a *.rev* file)
corresponding to the given pack. If *--verify* is given, ensure that the
existing reverse index is correct. Takes precedence over
*pack.writeReverseIndex*.

#+end_quote

--stdin

#+begin_quote
When this flag is provided, the pack is read from stdin instead and a
copy is then written to <pack-file>. If <pack-file> is not specified,
the pack is written to objects/pack/ directory of the current Git
repository with a default name determined from the pack content. If
<pack-file> is not specified consider using --keep to prevent a race
condition between this process and /git repack/.

#+end_quote

--fix-thin

#+begin_quote
Fix a "thin" pack produced by *git pack-objects --thin* (see
*git-pack-objects*(1) for details) by adding the excluded objects the
deltified objects are based on to the pack. This option only makes sense
in conjunction with --stdin.

#+end_quote

--keep

#+begin_quote
Before moving the index into its final destination create an empty .keep
file for the associated pack file. This option is usually necessary with
--stdin to prevent a simultaneous /git repack/ process from deleting the
newly constructed pack and index before refs can be updated to use
objects contained in the pack.

#+end_quote

--keep=<msg>

#+begin_quote
Like --keep, create a .keep file before moving the index into its final
destination. However, instead of creating an empty file place /<msg>/
followed by an LF into the .keep file. The /<msg>/ message can later be
searched for within all .keep files to locate any which have outlived
their usefulness.

#+end_quote

--index-version=<version>[,<offset>]

#+begin_quote
This is intended to be used by the test suite only. It allows to force
the version for the generated pack index, and to force 64-bit index
entries on objects located above the given offset.

#+end_quote

--strict[=<msg-id>=<severity>...]

#+begin_quote
Die, if the pack contains broken objects or links. An optional
comma-separated list of *<msg-id>=<severity>* can be passed to change
the severity of some possible issues, e.g.,
*--strict="missingEmail=ignore,badTagName=error"*. See the entry for the
*fsck.<msg-id>* configuration options in *git-fsck*(1) for more
information on the possible values of *<msg-id>* and *<severity>*.

#+end_quote

--progress-title

#+begin_quote
For internal use only.

Set the title of the progress bar. The title is "Receiving objects" by
default and "Indexing objects" when *--stdin* is specified.

#+end_quote

--check-self-contained-and-connected

#+begin_quote
Die if the pack contains broken links. For internal use only.

#+end_quote

--fsck-objects[=<msg-id>=<severity>...]

#+begin_quote
Die if the pack contains broken objects, but unlike *--strict*, don't
choke on broken links. If the pack contains a tree pointing to a
.gitmodules blob that does not exist, prints the hash of that blob (for
the caller to check) after the hash that goes into the name of the
pack/idx file (see "Notes").

An optional comma-separated list of *<msg-id>=<severity>* can be passed
to change the severity of some possible issues, e.g.,
*--fsck-objects="missingEmail=ignore,badTagName=ignore"*. See the entry
for the *fsck.<msg-id>* configuration options in *git-fsck*(1) for more
information on the possible values of *<msg-id>* and *<severity>*.

#+end_quote

--threads=<n>

#+begin_quote
Specifies the number of threads to spawn when resolving deltas. This
requires that index-pack be compiled with pthreads otherwise this option
is ignored with a warning. This is meant to reduce packing time on
multiprocessor machines. The required amount of memory for the delta
search window is however multiplied by the number of threads. Specifying
0 will cause Git to auto-detect the number of CPU's and use maximum 3
threads.

#+end_quote

--max-input-size=<size>

#+begin_quote
Die, if the pack is larger than <size>.

#+end_quote

--object-format=<hash-algorithm>

#+begin_quote
Specify the given object format (hash algorithm) for the pack. The valid
values are /sha1/ and (if enabled) /sha256/. The default is the
algorithm for the current repository (set by *extensions.objectFormat*),
or /sha1/ if no value is set or outside a repository.

This option cannot be used with --stdin.

Note: At present, there is no interoperability between SHA-256
repositories and SHA-1 repositories.

#+end_quote

Historically, we warned that SHA-256 repositories may later need
backward incompatible changes when we introduce such interoperability
features. Today, we only expect compatible changes. Furthermore, if such
changes prove to be necessary, it can be expected that SHA-256
repositories created with today's Git will be usable by future versions
of Git without data loss.

--promisor[=<message>]

#+begin_quote
Before committing the pack-index, create a .promisor file for this pack.
Particularly helpful when writing a promisor pack with --fix-thin since
the name of the pack is not final until the pack has been fully written.
If a *<message>* is provided, then that content will be written to the
.promisor file for future reference. See *partial clone*[1] for more
information.

#+end_quote

* NOTES
Once the index has been created, the hash that goes into the name of the
pack/idx file is printed to stdout. If --stdin was also used then this
is prefixed by either "pack\t", or "keep\t" if a new .keep file was
successfully created. This is useful to remove a .keep file used as a
lock to prevent the race with /git repack/ mentioned above.

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite

* NOTES
-  1. :: partial clone

  file:///nix/store/9xdnzfl42isjgsn1mnxyjdmspakf8ayi-git-2.46.1-doc/share/doc/git/technical/partial-clone.html
