#+TITLE: Manpages - git-replay.1
* NAME
git-replay - EXPERIMENTAL: Replay commits on a new base, works with bare
repos too

* SYNOPSIS
#+begin_example
(EXPERIMENTAL!) git replay ([--contained] --onto <newbase> | --advance <branch>) <revision-range>...
#+end_example

* DESCRIPTION
Takes ranges of commits and replays them onto a new location. Leaves the
working tree and the index untouched, and updates no references. The
output of this command is meant to be used as input to *git update-ref
--stdin*, which would update the relevant branches (see the OUTPUT
section below).

THIS COMMAND IS EXPERIMENTAL. THE BEHAVIOR MAY CHANGE.

* OPTIONS
--onto <newbase>

#+begin_quote
Starting point at which to create the new commits. May be any valid
commit, and not just an existing branch name.

When *--onto* is specified, the update-ref command(s) in the output will
update the branch(es) in the revision range to point at the new commits,
similar to the way how *git rebase --update-refs* updates multiple
branches in the affected range.

#+end_quote

--advance <branch>

#+begin_quote
Starting point at which to create the new commits; must be a branch
name.

When *--advance* is specified, the update-ref command(s) in the output
will update the branch passed as an argument to *--advance* to point at
the new commits (in other words, this mimics a cherry-pick operation).

#+end_quote

<revision-range>

#+begin_quote
Range of commits to replay. More than one <revision-range> can be
passed, but in *--advance <branch>* mode, they should have a single tip,
so that it's clear where <branch> should point to. See "Specifying
Ranges" in *git-rev-parse*(1) and the "Commit Limiting" options below.

#+end_quote

** Commit Limiting
Besides specifying a range of commits that should be listed using the
special notations explained in the description, additional commit
limiting may be applied.

Using more options generally further limits the output (e.g.
*--since=<date1>* limits to commits newer than *<date1>*, and using it
with *--grep=<pattern>* further limits to commits whose log message has
a line that matches *<pattern>*), unless otherwise noted.

Note that these are applied before commit ordering and formatting
options, such as *--reverse*.

-<number>, -n <number>, --max-count=<number>

#+begin_quote
Limit the number of commits to output.

#+end_quote

--skip=<number>

#+begin_quote
Skip /number/ commits before starting to show the commit output.

#+end_quote

--since=<date>, --after=<date>

#+begin_quote
Show commits more recent than a specific date.

#+end_quote

--since-as-filter=<date>

#+begin_quote
Show all commits more recent than a specific date. This visits all
commits in the range, rather than stopping at the first commit which is
older than a specific date.

#+end_quote

--until=<date>, --before=<date>

#+begin_quote
Show commits older than a specific date.

#+end_quote

--author=<pattern>, --committer=<pattern>

#+begin_quote
Limit the commits output to ones with author/committer header lines that
match the specified pattern (regular expression). With more than one
*--author=<pattern>*, commits whose author matches any of the given
patterns are chosen (similarly for multiple *--committer=<pattern>*).

#+end_quote

--grep-reflog=<pattern>

#+begin_quote
Limit the commits output to ones with reflog entries that match the
specified pattern (regular expression). With more than one
*--grep-reflog*, commits whose reflog message matches any of the given
patterns are chosen. It is an error to use this option unless
*--walk-reflogs* is in use.

#+end_quote

--grep=<pattern>

#+begin_quote
Limit the commits output to ones with a log message that matches the
specified pattern (regular expression). With more than one
*--grep=<pattern>*, commits whose message matches any of the given
patterns are chosen (but see *--all-match*).

When *--notes* is in effect, the message from the notes is matched as if
it were part of the log message.

#+end_quote

--all-match

#+begin_quote
Limit the commits output to ones that match all given *--grep*, instead
of ones that match at least one.

#+end_quote

--invert-grep

#+begin_quote
Limit the commits output to ones with a log message that do not match
the pattern specified with *--grep=<pattern>*.

#+end_quote

-i, --regexp-ignore-case

#+begin_quote
Match the regular expression limiting patterns without regard to letter
case.

#+end_quote

--basic-regexp

#+begin_quote
Consider the limiting patterns to be basic regular expressions; this is
the default.

#+end_quote

-E, --extended-regexp

#+begin_quote
Consider the limiting patterns to be extended regular expressions
instead of the default basic regular expressions.

#+end_quote

-F, --fixed-strings

#+begin_quote
Consider the limiting patterns to be fixed strings (don't interpret
pattern as a regular expression).

#+end_quote

-P, --perl-regexp

#+begin_quote
Consider the limiting patterns to be Perl-compatible regular
expressions.

Support for these types of regular expressions is an optional
compile-time dependency. If Git wasn't compiled with support for them
providing this option will cause it to die.

#+end_quote

--remove-empty

#+begin_quote
Stop when a given path disappears from the tree.

#+end_quote

--merges

#+begin_quote
Print only merge commits. This is exactly the same as *--min-parents=2*.

#+end_quote

--no-merges

#+begin_quote
Do not print commits with more than one parent. This is exactly the same
as *--max-parents=1*.

#+end_quote

--min-parents=<number>, --max-parents=<number>, --no-min-parents,
--no-max-parents

#+begin_quote
Show only commits which have at least (or at most) that many parent
commits. In particular, *--max-parents=1* is the same as *--no-merges*,
*--min-parents=2* is the same as *--merges*. *--max-parents=0* gives all
root commits and *--min-parents=3* all octopus merges.

*--no-min-parents* and *--no-max-parents* reset these limits (to no
limit) again. Equivalent forms are *--min-parents=0* (any commit has 0
or more parents) and *--max-parents=-1* (negative numbers denote no
upper limit).

#+end_quote

--first-parent

#+begin_quote
When finding commits to include, follow only the first parent commit
upon seeing a merge commit. This option can give a better overview when
viewing the evolution of a particular topic branch, because merges into
a topic branch tend to be only about adjusting to updated upstream from
time to time, and this option allows you to ignore the individual
commits brought in to your history by such a merge.

#+end_quote

--exclude-first-parent-only

#+begin_quote
When finding commits to exclude (with a /^/), follow only the first
parent commit upon seeing a merge commit. This can be used to find the
set of changes in a topic branch from the point where it diverged from
the remote branch, given that arbitrary merges can be valid topic branch
changes.

#+end_quote

--not

#+begin_quote
Reverses the meaning of the /^/ prefix (or lack thereof) for all
following revision specifiers, up to the next *--not*. When used on the
command line before --stdin, the revisions passed through stdin will not
be affected by it. Conversely, when passed via standard input, the
revisions passed on the command line will not be affected by it.

#+end_quote

--all

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all the refs in *refs/*, along with *HEAD*, are listed on
the command line as /<commit>/.

#+end_quote

--branches[=<pattern>]

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all the refs in *refs/heads* are listed on the command
line as /<commit>/. If /<pattern>/ is given, limit branches to ones
matching given shell glob. If pattern lacks /?/, /*/, or /[/, //*/ at
the end is implied.

#+end_quote

--tags[=<pattern>]

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all the refs in *refs/tags* are listed on the command line
as /<commit>/. If /<pattern>/ is given, limit tags to ones matching
given shell glob. If pattern lacks /?/, /*/, or /[/, //*/ at the end is
implied.

#+end_quote

--remotes[=<pattern>]

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all the refs in *refs/remotes* are listed on the command
line as /<commit>/. If /<pattern>/ is given, limit remote-tracking
branches to ones matching given shell glob. If pattern lacks /?/, /*/,
or /[/, //*/ at the end is implied.

#+end_quote

--glob=<glob-pattern>

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all the refs matching shell glob /<glob-pattern>/ are
listed on the command line as /<commit>/. Leading /refs//, is
automatically prepended if missing. If pattern lacks /?/, /*/, or /[/,
//*/ at the end is implied.

#+end_quote

--exclude=<glob-pattern>

#+begin_quote
Do not include refs matching /<glob-pattern>/ that the next *--all*,
*--branches*, *--tags*, *--remotes*, or *--glob* would otherwise
consider. Repetitions of this option accumulate exclusion patterns up to
the next *--all*, *--branches*, *--tags*, *--remotes*, or *--glob*
option (other options or arguments do not clear accumulated patterns).

The patterns given should not begin with *refs/heads*, *refs/tags*, or
*refs/remotes* when applied to *--branches*, *--tags*, or *--remotes*,
respectively, and they must begin with *refs/* when applied to *--glob*
or *--all*. If a trailing //*/ is intended, it must be given explicitly.

#+end_quote

--exclude-hidden=[fetch|receive|uploadpack]

#+begin_quote
Do not include refs that would be hidden by *git-fetch*,
*git-receive-pack* or *git-upload-pack* by consulting the appropriate
*fetch.hideRefs*, *receive.hideRefs* or *uploadpack.hideRefs*
configuration along with *transfer.hideRefs* (see *git-config*(1)). This
option affects the next pseudo-ref option *--all* or *--glob* and is
cleared after processing them.

#+end_quote

--reflog

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all objects mentioned by reflogs are listed on the command
line as *<commit>*.

#+end_quote

--alternate-refs

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if all objects mentioned as ref tips of alternate
repositories were listed on the command line. An alternate repository is
any repository whose object directory is specified in
*objects/info/alternates*. The set of included objects may be modified
by *core.alternateRefsCommand*, etc. See *git-config*(1).

#+end_quote

--single-worktree

#+begin_quote
By default, all working trees will be examined by the following options
when there are more than one (see *git-worktree*(1)): *--all*,
*--reflog* and *--indexed-objects*. This option forces them to examine
the current working tree only.

#+end_quote

--ignore-missing

#+begin_quote
Upon seeing an invalid object name in the input, pretend as if the bad
input was not given.

#+end_quote

--bisect

#+begin_quote
Pretend as if the bad bisection ref *refs/bisect/bad* was listed and as
if it was followed by *--not* and the good bisection refs
*refs/bisect/good-** on the command line.

#+end_quote

--stdin

#+begin_quote
In addition to getting arguments from the command line, read them from
standard input as well. This accepts commits and pseudo-options like
*--all* and *--glob=*. When a *--* separator is seen, the following
input is treated as paths and used to limit the result. Flags like
*--not* which are read via standard input are only respected for
arguments passed in the same way and will not influence any subsequent
command line arguments.

#+end_quote

--cherry-mark

#+begin_quote
Like *--cherry-pick* (see below) but mark equivalent commits with *=*
rather than omitting them, and inequivalent ones with *+*.

#+end_quote

--cherry-pick

#+begin_quote
Omit any commit that introduces the same change as another commit on the
“other side” when the set of commits are limited with symmetric
difference.

For example, if you have two branches, *A* and *B*, a usual way to list
all commits on only one side of them is with *--left-right* (see the
example below in the description of the *--left-right* option). However,
it shows the commits that were cherry-picked from the other branch (for
example, “3rd on b” may be cherry-picked from branch A). With this
option, such pairs of commits are excluded from the output.

#+end_quote

--left-only, --right-only

#+begin_quote
List only commits on the respective side of a symmetric difference, i.e.
only those which would be marked *<* resp. *>* by *--left-right*.

For example, *--cherry-pick --right-only A...B* omits those commits from
*B* which are in *A* or are patch-equivalent to a commit in *A*. In
other words, this lists the *+* commits from *git cherry A B*. More
precisely, *--cherry-pick --right-only --no-merges* gives the exact
list.

#+end_quote

--cherry

#+begin_quote
A synonym for *--right-only --cherry-mark --no-merges*; useful to limit
the output to the commits on our side and mark those that have been
applied to the other side of a forked history with *git log --cherry
upstream...mybranch*, similar to *git cherry upstream mybranch*.

#+end_quote

-g, --walk-reflogs

#+begin_quote
Instead of walking the commit ancestry chain, walk reflog entries from
the most recent one to older ones. When this option is used you cannot
specify commits to exclude (that is, /^commit/, /commit1..commit2/, and
/commit1...commit2/ notations cannot be used).

With *--pretty* format other than *oneline* and *reference* (for obvious
reasons), this causes the output to have two extra lines of information
taken from the reflog. The reflog designator in the output may be shown
as *ref@{<Nth>}* (where /<Nth>/ is the reverse-chronological index in
the reflog) or as *ref@{<timestamp>}* (with the /<timestamp>/ for that
entry), depending on a few rules:

#+begin_quote
1.

If the starting point is specified as *ref@{<Nth>}*, show the index
format.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

If the starting point was specified as *ref@{now}*, show the timestamp
format.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

If neither was used, but *--date* was given on the command line, show
the timestamp in the format requested by *--date*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

Otherwise, show the index format.

#+end_quote

Under *--pretty=oneline*, the commit message is prefixed with this
information on the same line. This option cannot be combined with
*--reverse*. See also *git-reflog*(1).

Under *--pretty=reference*, this information will not be shown at all.

#+end_quote

--merge

#+begin_quote
Show commits touching conflicted paths in the range *HEAD...<other>*,
where *<other>* is the first existing pseudoref in *MERGE_HEAD*,
*CHERRY_PICK_HEAD*, *REVERT_HEAD* or *REBASE_HEAD*. Only works when the
index has unmerged entries. This option can be used to show relevant
commits when resolving conflicts from a 3-way merge.

#+end_quote

--boundary

#+begin_quote
Output excluded boundary commits. Boundary commits are prefixed with
*-*.

#+end_quote

** History Simplification
Sometimes you are only interested in parts of the history, for example
the commits modifying a particular <path>. But there are two parts of
/History Simplification/, one part is selecting the commits and the
other is how to do it, as there are various strategies to simplify the
history.

The following options select the commits to be shown:

<paths>

#+begin_quote
Commits modifying the given <paths> are selected.

#+end_quote

--simplify-by-decoration

#+begin_quote
Commits that are referred by some branch or tag are selected.

#+end_quote

Note that extra commits can be shown to give a meaningful history.

The following options affect the way the simplification is performed:

Default mode

#+begin_quote
Simplifies the history to the simplest history explaining the final
state of the tree. Simplest because it prunes some side branches if the
end result is the same (i.e. merging branches with the same content)

#+end_quote

--show-pulls

#+begin_quote
Include all commits from the default mode, but also any merge commits
that are not TREESAME to the first parent but are TREESAME to a later
parent. This mode is helpful for showing the merge commits that "first
introduced" a change to a branch.

#+end_quote

--full-history

#+begin_quote
Same as the default mode, but does not prune some history.

#+end_quote

--dense

#+begin_quote
Only the selected commits are shown, plus some to have a meaningful
history.

#+end_quote

--sparse

#+begin_quote
All commits in the simplified history are shown.

#+end_quote

--simplify-merges

#+begin_quote
Additional option to *--full-history* to remove some needless merges
from the resulting history, as there are no selected commits
contributing to this merge.

#+end_quote

--ancestry-path[=<commit>]

#+begin_quote
When given a range of commits to display (e.g. /commit1..commit2/ or
/commit2 ^commit1/), only display commits in that range that are
ancestors of <commit>, descendants of <commit>, or <commit> itself. If
no commit is specified, use /commit1/ (the excluded part of the range)
as <commit>. Can be passed multiple times; if so, a commit is included
if it is any of the commits given or if it is an ancestor or descendant
of one of them.

#+end_quote

A more detailed explanation follows.

Suppose you specified *foo* as the <paths>. We shall call commits that
modify *foo* !TREESAME, and the rest TREESAME. (In a diff filtered for
*foo*, they look different and equal, respectively.)

In the following, we will always refer to the same example history to
illustrate the differences between simplification settings. We assume
that you are filtering for a file *foo* in this commit graph:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M---N---O---P---Q
         /     /   /   /   /   /
        I     B   C   D   E   Y
         \   /   /   /   /   /
          `-------------   X
#+end_example

#+end_quote

The horizontal line of history A---Q is taken to be the first parent of
each merge. The commits are:

#+begin_quote
·

*I* is the initial commit, in which *foo* exists with contents “asdf”,
and a file *quux* exists with contents “quux”. Initial commits are
compared to an empty tree, so *I* is !TREESAME.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

In *A*, *foo* contains just “foo”.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*B* contains the same change as *A*. Its merge *M* is trivial and hence
TREESAME to all parents.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*C* does not change *foo*, but its merge *N* changes it to “foobar”, so
it is not TREESAME to any parent.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*D* sets *foo* to “baz”. Its merge *O* combines the strings from *N* and
*D* to “foobarbaz”; i.e., it is not TREESAME to any parent.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*E* changes *quux* to “xyzzy”, and its merge *P* combines the strings to
“quux xyzzy”. *P* is TREESAME to *O*, but not to *E*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*X* is an independent root commit that added a new file *side*, and *Y*
modified it. *Y* is TREESAME to *X*. Its merge *Q* added *side* to *P*,
and *Q* is TREESAME to *P*, but not to *Y*.

#+end_quote

*rev-list* walks backwards through history, including or excluding
commits based on whether *--full-history* and/or parent rewriting (via
*--parents* or *--children*) are used. The following settings are
available.

Default mode

#+begin_quote
Commits are included if they are not TREESAME to any parent (though this
can be changed, see *--sparse* below). If the commit was a merge, and it
was TREESAME to one parent, follow only that parent. (Even if there are
several TREESAME parents, follow only one of them.) Otherwise, follow
all parents.

This results in:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---N---O
         /     /   /
        I---------D
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Note how the rule to only follow the TREESAME parent, if one is
available, removed *B* from consideration entirely. *C* was considered
via *N*, but is TREESAME. Root commits are compared to an empty tree, so
*I* is !TREESAME.

Parent/child relations are only visible with *--parents*, but that does
not affect the commits selected in default mode, so we have shown the
parent lines.

#+end_quote

--full-history without parent rewriting

#+begin_quote
This mode differs from the default in one point: always follow all
parents of a merge, even if it is TREESAME to one of them. Even if more
than one side of the merge has commits that are included, this does not
imply that the merge itself is! In the example, we get

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
        I  A  B  N  D  O  P  Q
#+end_example

#+end_quote

*M* was excluded because it is TREESAME to both parents. *E*, *C* and
*B* were all walked, but only *B* was !TREESAME, so the others do not
appear.

Note that without parent rewriting, it is not really possible to talk
about the parent/child relationships between the commits, so we show
them disconnected.

#+end_quote

--full-history with parent rewriting

#+begin_quote
Ordinary commits are only included if they are !TREESAME (though this
can be changed, see *--sparse* below).

Merges are always included. However, their parent list is rewritten:
Along each parent, prune away commits that are not included themselves.
This results in

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M---N---O---P---Q
         /     /   /   /   /
        I     B   /   D   /
         \   /   /   /   /
          `-------------
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Compare to *--full-history* without rewriting above. Note that *E* was
pruned away because it is TREESAME, but the parent list of P was
rewritten to contain *E*s parent *I*. The same happened for *C* and *N*,
and *X*, *Y* and *Q*.

#+end_quote

In addition to the above settings, you can change whether TREESAME
affects inclusion:

--dense

#+begin_quote
Commits that are walked are included if they are not TREESAME to any
parent.

#+end_quote

--sparse

#+begin_quote
All commits that are walked are included.

Note that without *--full-history*, this still simplifies merges: if one
of the parents is TREESAME, we follow only that one, so the other sides
of the merge are never walked.

#+end_quote

--simplify-merges

#+begin_quote
First, build a history graph in the same way that *--full-history* with
parent rewriting does (see above).

Then simplify each commit *C* to its replacement *C* in the final
history according to the following rules:

#+begin_quote
·

Set *C* to *C*.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Replace each parent *P* of *C* with its simplification *P*. In the
process, drop parents that are ancestors of other parents or that are
root commits TREESAME to an empty tree, and remove duplicates, but take
care to never drop all parents that we are TREESAME to.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If after this parent rewriting, *C* is a root or merge commit (has zero
or >1 parents), a boundary commit, or !TREESAME, it remains. Otherwise,
it is replaced with its only parent.

#+end_quote

The effect of this is best shown by way of comparing to *--full-history*
with parent rewriting. The example turns into:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M---N---O
         /     /       /
        I     B       D
         \   /       /
          `---------
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Note the major differences in *N*, *P*, and *Q* over *--full-history*:

#+begin_quote
·

*N*s parent list had *I* removed, because it is an ancestor of the other
parent *M*. Still, *N* remained because it is !TREESAME.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*P*s parent list similarly had *I* removed. *P* was then removed
completely, because it had one parent and is TREESAME.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

*Q*s parent list had *Y* simplified to *X*. *X* was then removed,
because it was a TREESAME root. *Q* was then removed completely, because
it had one parent and is TREESAME.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

There is another simplification mode available:

--ancestry-path[=<commit>]

#+begin_quote
Limit the displayed commits to those which are an ancestor of <commit>,
or which are a descendant of <commit>, or are <commit> itself.

As an example use case, consider the following commit history:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
            D---E-------F
           /     \       \
          B---C---G---H---I---J
         /                     \
        A-------K---------------L--M
#+end_example

#+end_quote

A regular /D..M/ computes the set of commits that are ancestors of *M*,
but excludes the ones that are ancestors of *D*. This is useful to see
what happened to the history leading to *M* since *D*, in the sense that
“what does *M* have that did not exist in *D*”. The result in this
example would be all the commits, except *A* and *B* (and *D* itself, of
course).

When we want to find out what commits in *M* are contaminated with the
bug introduced by *D* and need fixing, however, we might want to view
only the subset of /D..M/ that are actually descendants of *D*, i.e.
excluding *C* and *K*. This is exactly what the *--ancestry-path* option
does. Applied to the /D..M/ range, it results in:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
                E-------F
                 \       \
                  G---H---I---J
                               \
                                L--M
#+end_example

#+end_quote

We can also use *--ancestry-path=D* instead of *--ancestry-path* which
means the same thing when applied to the /D..M/ range but is just more
explicit.

If we instead are interested in a given topic within this range, and all
commits affected by that topic, we may only want to view the subset of
*D..M* which contain that topic in their ancestry path. So, using
*--ancestry-path=H D..M* for example would result in:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
                E
                 \
                  G---H---I---J
                               \
                                L--M
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Whereas *--ancestry-path=K D..M* would result in

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
                K---------------L--M
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

Before discussing another option, *--show-pulls*, we need to create a
new example history.

A common problem users face when looking at simplified history is that a
commit they know changed a file somehow does not appear in the file's
simplified history. Let's demonstrate a new example and show how options
such as *--full-history* and *--simplify-merges* works in that case:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M-----C--N---O---P
         /     / \  \  \/   /   /
        I     B   \  R-`-Z   /
         \   /     \/         /
          \ /      /\        /
           `---X--  `---Y--
#+end_example

#+end_quote

For this example, suppose *I* created *file.txt* which was modified by
*A*, *B*, and *X* in different ways. The single-parent commits *C*, *Z*,
and *Y* do not change *file.txt*. The merge commit *M* was created by
resolving the merge conflict to include both changes from *A* and *B*
and hence is not TREESAME to either. The merge commit *R*, however, was
created by ignoring the contents of *file.txt* at *M* and taking only
the contents of *file.txt* at *X*. Hence, *R* is TREESAME to *X* but not
*M*. Finally, the natural merge resolution to create *N* is to take the
contents of *file.txt* at *R*, so *N* is TREESAME to *R* but not *C*.
The merge commits *O* and *P* are TREESAME to their first parents, but
not to their second parents, *Z* and *Y* respectively.

When using the default mode, *N* and *R* both have a TREESAME parent, so
those edges are walked and the others are ignored. The resulting history
graph is:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
        I---X
#+end_example

#+end_quote

When using *--full-history*, Git walks every edge. This will discover
the commits *A* and *B* and the merge *M*, but also will reveal the
merge commits *O* and *P*. With parent rewriting, the resulting graph
is:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M--------N---O---P
         /     / \  \  \/   /   /
        I     B   \  R-`--   /
         \   /     \/         /
          \ /      /\        /
           `---X--  `------
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Here, the merge commits *O* and *P* contribute extra noise, as they did
not actually contribute a change to *file.txt*. They only merged a topic
that was based on an older version of *file.txt*. This is a common issue
in repositories using a workflow where many contributors work in
parallel and merge their topic branches along a single trunk: many
unrelated merges appear in the *--full-history* results.

When using the *--simplify-merges* option, the commits *O* and *P*
disappear from the results. This is because the rewritten second parents
of *O* and *P* are reachable from their first parents. Those edges are
removed and then the commits look like single-parent commits that are
TREESAME to their parent. This also happens to the commit *N*, resulting
in a history view as follows:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M--.
         /     /    \
        I     B      R
         \   /      /
          \ /      /
           `---X--
#+end_example

#+end_quote

In this view, we see all of the important single-parent changes from
*A*, *B*, and *X*. We also see the carefully-resolved merge *M* and the
not-so-carefully-resolved merge *R*. This is usually enough information
to determine why the commits *A* and *B* "disappeared" from history in
the default view. However, there are a few issues with this approach.

The first issue is performance. Unlike any previous option, the
*--simplify-merges* option requires walking the entire commit history
before returning a single result. This can make the option difficult to
use for very large repositories.

The second issue is one of auditing. When many contributors are working
on the same repository, it is important which merge commits introduced a
change into an important branch. The problematic merge *R* above is not
likely to be the merge commit that was used to merge into an important
branch. Instead, the merge *N* was used to merge *R* and *X* into the
important branch. This commit may have information about why the change
*X* came to override the changes from *A* and *B* in its commit message.

--show-pulls

#+begin_quote
In addition to the commits shown in the default history, show each merge
commit that is not TREESAME to its first parent but is TREESAME to a
later parent.

When a merge commit is included by *--show-pulls*, the merge is treated
as if it "pulled" the change from another branch. When using
*--show-pulls* on this example (and no other options) the resulting
graph is:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
        I---X---R---N
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Here, the merge commits *R* and *N* are included because they pulled the
commits *X* and *R* into the base branch, respectively. These merges are
the reason the commits *A* and *B* do not appear in the default history.

When *--show-pulls* is paired with *--simplify-merges*, the graph
includes all of the necessary information:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
          .-A---M--.   N
         /     /    \ /
        I     B      R
         \   /      /
          \ /      /
           `---X--
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Notice that since *M* is reachable from *R*, the edge from *N* to *M*
was simplified away. However, *N* still appears in the history as an
important commit because it "pulled" the change *R* into the main
branch.

#+end_quote

The *--simplify-by-decoration* option allows you to view only the big
picture of the topology of the history, by omitting commits that are not
referenced by tags. Commits are marked as !TREESAME (in other words,
kept after history simplification rules described above) if (1) they are
referenced by tags, or (2) they change the contents of the paths given
on the command line. All other commits are marked as TREESAME (subject
to be simplified away).

** Commit Ordering
By default, the commits are shown in reverse chronological order.

--date-order

#+begin_quote
Show no parents before all of its children are shown, but otherwise show
commits in the commit timestamp order.

#+end_quote

--author-date-order

#+begin_quote
Show no parents before all of its children are shown, but otherwise show
commits in the author timestamp order.

#+end_quote

--topo-order

#+begin_quote
Show no parents before all of its children are shown, and avoid showing
commits on multiple lines of history intermixed.

For example, in a commit history like this:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
    ---1----2----4----7
        \              \
         3----5----6----8---
#+end_example

#+end_quote

where the numbers denote the order of commit timestamps, *git rev-list*
and friends with *--date-order* show the commits in the timestamp order:
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1.

With *--topo-order*, they would show 8 6 5 3 7 4 2 1 (or 8 7 4 2 6 5 3
1); some older commits are shown before newer ones in order to avoid
showing the commits from two parallel development track mixed together.

#+end_quote

--reverse

#+begin_quote
Output the commits chosen to be shown (see Commit Limiting section
above) in reverse order. Cannot be combined with *--walk-reflogs*.

#+end_quote

** Object Traversal
These options are mostly targeted for packing of Git repositories.

--no-walk[=(sorted|unsorted)]

#+begin_quote
Only show the given commits, but do not traverse their ancestors. This
has no effect if a range is specified. If the argument *unsorted* is
given, the commits are shown in the order they were given on the command
line. Otherwise (if *sorted* or no argument was given), the commits are
shown in reverse chronological order by commit time. Cannot be combined
with *--graph*.

#+end_quote

--do-walk

#+begin_quote
Overrides a previous *--no-walk*.

#+end_quote

** Commit Formatting
--pretty[=<format>], --format=<format>

#+begin_quote
Pretty-print the contents of the commit logs in a given format, where
/<format>/ can be one of /oneline/, /short/, /medium/, /full/, /fuller/,
/reference/, /email/, /raw/, /format:<string>/ and /tformat:<string>/.
When /<format>/ is none of the above, and has /%placeholder/ in it, it
acts as if /--pretty=tformat:<format>/ were given.

See the "PRETTY FORMATS" section for some additional details for each
format. When /=<format>/ part is omitted, it defaults to /medium/.

Note: you can specify the default pretty format in the repository
configuration (see *git-config*(1)).

#+end_quote

--abbrev-commit

#+begin_quote
Instead of showing the full 40-byte hexadecimal commit object name, show
a prefix that names the object uniquely. "--abbrev=<n>" (which also
modifies diff output, if it is displayed) option can be used to specify
the minimum length of the prefix.

This should make "--pretty=oneline" a whole lot more readable for people
using 80-column terminals.

#+end_quote

--no-abbrev-commit

#+begin_quote
Show the full 40-byte hexadecimal commit object name. This negates
*--abbrev-commit*, either explicit or implied by other options such as
"--oneline". It also overrides the *log.abbrevCommit* variable.

#+end_quote

--oneline

#+begin_quote
This is a shorthand for "--pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit" used
together.

#+end_quote

--encoding=<encoding>

#+begin_quote
Commit objects record the character encoding used for the log message in
their encoding header; this option can be used to tell the command to
re-code the commit log message in the encoding preferred by the user.
For non plumbing commands this defaults to UTF-8. Note that if an object
claims to be encoded in *X* and we are outputting in *X*, we will output
the object verbatim; this means that invalid sequences in the original
commit may be copied to the output. Likewise, if iconv(3) fails to
convert the commit, we will quietly output the original object verbatim.

#+end_quote

--expand-tabs=<n>, --expand-tabs, --no-expand-tabs

#+begin_quote
Perform a tab expansion (replace each tab with enough spaces to fill to
the next display column that is a multiple of /<n>/) in the log message
before showing it in the output. *--expand-tabs* is a short-hand for
*--expand-tabs=8*, and *--no-expand-tabs* is a short-hand for
*--expand-tabs=0*, which disables tab expansion.

By default, tabs are expanded in pretty formats that indent the log
message by 4 spaces (i.e. /medium/, which is the default, /full/, and
/fuller/).

#+end_quote

--notes[=<ref>]

#+begin_quote
Show the notes (see *git-notes*(1)) that annotate the commit, when
showing the commit log message. This is the default for *git log*, *git
show* and *git whatchanged* commands when there is no *--pretty*,
*--format*, or *--oneline* option given on the command line.

By default, the notes shown are from the notes refs listed in the
*core.notesRef* and *notes.displayRef* variables (or corresponding
environment overrides). See *git-config*(1) for more details.

With an optional /<ref>/ argument, use the ref to find the notes to
display. The ref can specify the full refname when it begins with
*refs/notes/*; when it begins with *notes/*, *refs/* and otherwise
*refs/notes/* is prefixed to form the full name of the ref.

Multiple --notes options can be combined to control which notes are
being displayed. Examples: "--notes=foo" will show only notes from
"refs/notes/foo"; "--notes=foo --notes" will show both notes from
"refs/notes/foo" and from the default notes ref(s).

#+end_quote

--no-notes

#+begin_quote
Do not show notes. This negates the above *--notes* option, by resetting
the list of notes refs from which notes are shown. Options are parsed in
the order given on the command line, so e.g. "--notes --notes=foo
--no-notes --notes=bar" will only show notes from "refs/notes/bar".

#+end_quote

--show-notes-by-default

#+begin_quote
Show the default notes unless options for displaying specific notes are
given.

#+end_quote

--show-notes[=<ref>], --[no-]standard-notes

#+begin_quote
These options are deprecated. Use the above --notes/--no-notes options
instead.

#+end_quote

--show-signature

#+begin_quote
Check the validity of a signed commit object by passing the signature to
*gpg --verify* and show the output.

#+end_quote

--relative-date

#+begin_quote
Synonym for *--date=relative*.

#+end_quote

--date=<format>

#+begin_quote
Only takes effect for dates shown in human-readable format, such as when
using *--pretty*. *log.date* config variable sets a default value for
the log command's *--date* option. By default, dates are shown in the
original time zone (either committer's or author's). If *-local* is
appended to the format (e.g., *iso-local*), the user's local time zone
is used instead.

*--date=relative* shows dates relative to the current time, e.g. “2
hours ago”. The *-local* option has no effect for *--date=relative*.

*--date=local* is an alias for *--date=default-local*.

*--date=iso* (or *--date=iso8601*) shows timestamps in a ISO 8601-like
format. The differences to the strict ISO 8601 format are:

#+begin_quote
·

a space instead of the *T* date/time delimiter

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

a space between time and time zone

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

no colon between hours and minutes of the time zone

#+end_quote

*--date=iso-strict* (or *--date=iso8601-strict*) shows timestamps in
strict ISO 8601 format.

*--date=rfc* (or *--date=rfc2822*) shows timestamps in RFC 2822 format,
often found in email messages.

*--date=short* shows only the date, but not the time, in *YYYY-MM-DD*
format.

*--date=raw* shows the date as seconds since the epoch (1970-01-01
00:00:00 UTC), followed by a space, and then the timezone as an offset
from UTC (a *+* or *-* with four digits; the first two are hours, and
the second two are minutes). I.e., as if the timestamp were formatted
with *strftime("%s %z")*). Note that the *-local* option does not affect
the seconds-since-epoch value (which is always measured in UTC), but
does switch the accompanying timezone value.

*--date=human* shows the timezone if the timezone does not match the
current time-zone, and doesn't print the whole date if that matches (ie
skip printing year for dates that are "this year", but also skip the
whole date itself if it's in the last few days and we can just say what
weekday it was). For older dates the hour and minute is also omitted.

*--date=unix* shows the date as a Unix epoch timestamp (seconds since
1970). As with *--raw*, this is always in UTC and therefore *-local* has
no effect.

*--date=format:...* feeds the format *...* to your system *strftime*,
except for %s, %z, and %Z, which are handled internally. Use
*--date=format:%c* to show the date in your system locale's preferred
format. See the *strftime* manual for a complete list of format
placeholders. When using *-local*, the correct syntax is
*--date=format-local:...*.

*--date=default* is the default format, and is based on ctime(3) output.
It shows a single line with three-letter day of the week, three-letter
month, day-of-month, hour-minute-seconds in "HH:MM:SS" format, followed
by 4-digit year, plus timezone information, unless the local time zone
is used, e.g. *Thu Jan 1 00:00:00 1970 +0000*.

#+end_quote

--parents

#+begin_quote
Print also the parents of the commit (in the form "commit parent...").
Also enables parent rewriting, see /History Simplification/ above.

#+end_quote

--children

#+begin_quote
Print also the children of the commit (in the form "commit child...").
Also enables parent rewriting, see /History Simplification/ above.

#+end_quote

--left-right

#+begin_quote
Mark which side of a symmetric difference a commit is reachable from.
Commits from the left side are prefixed with *<* and those from the
right with *>*. If combined with *--boundary*, those commits are
prefixed with *-*.

For example, if you have this topology:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
             y---b---b  branch B
            / \ /
           /   .
          /   / \
         o---x---a---a  branch A
#+end_example

#+end_quote

you would get an output like this:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
        $ git rev-list --left-right --boundary --pretty=oneline A...B

        >bbbbbbb... 3rd on b
        >bbbbbbb... 2nd on b
        <aaaaaaa... 3rd on a
        <aaaaaaa... 2nd on a
        -yyyyyyy... 1st on b
        -xxxxxxx... 1st on a
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

--graph

#+begin_quote
Draw a text-based graphical representation of the commit history on the
left hand side of the output. This may cause extra lines to be printed
in between commits, in order for the graph history to be drawn properly.
Cannot be combined with *--no-walk*.

This enables parent rewriting, see /History Simplification/ above.

This implies the *--topo-order* option by default, but the
*--date-order* option may also be specified.

#+end_quote

--show-linear-break[=<barrier>]

#+begin_quote
When --graph is not used, all history branches are flattened which can
make it hard to see that the two consecutive commits do not belong to a
linear branch. This option puts a barrier in between them in that case.
If *<barrier>* is specified, it is the string that will be shown instead
of the default one.

#+end_quote

* OUTPUT
When there are no conflicts, the output of this command is usable as
input to *git update-ref --stdin*. It is of the form:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
update refs/heads/branch1 ${NEW_branch1_HASH} ${OLD_branch1_HASH}
update refs/heads/branch2 ${NEW_branch2_HASH} ${OLD_branch2_HASH}
update refs/heads/branch3 ${NEW_branch3_HASH} ${OLD_branch3_HASH}
#+end_example

#+end_quote

where the number of refs updated depends on the arguments passed and the
shape of the history being replayed. When using *--advance*, the number
of refs updated is always one, but for *--onto*, it can be one or more
(rebasing multiple branches simultaneously is supported).

* EXIT STATUS
For a successful, non-conflicted replay, the exit status is 0. When the
replay has conflicts, the exit status is 1. If the replay is not able to
complete (or start) due to some kind of error, the exit status is
something other than 0 or 1.

* EXAMPLES
To simply rebase *mybranch* onto *target*:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git replay --onto target origin/main..mybranch
update refs/heads/mybranch ${NEW_mybranch_HASH} ${OLD_mybranch_HASH}
#+end_example

#+end_quote

To cherry-pick the commits from mybranch onto target:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git replay --advance target origin/main..mybranch
update refs/heads/target ${NEW_target_HASH} ${OLD_target_HASH}
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Note that the first two examples replay the exact same commits and on
top of the exact same new base, they only differ in that the first
provides instructions to make mybranch point at the new commits and the
second provides instructions to make target point at them.

What if you have a stack of branches, one depending upon another, and
you'd really like to rebase the whole set?

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git replay --contained --onto origin/main origin/main..tipbranch
update refs/heads/branch1 ${NEW_branch1_HASH} ${OLD_branch1_HASH}
update refs/heads/branch2 ${NEW_branch2_HASH} ${OLD_branch2_HASH}
update refs/heads/tipbranch ${NEW_tipbranch_HASH} ${OLD_tipbranch_HASH}
#+end_example

#+end_quote

When calling *git replay*, one does not need to specify a range of
commits to replay using the syntax *A..B*; any range expression will do:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ git replay --onto origin/main ^base branch1 branch2 branch3
update refs/heads/branch1 ${NEW_branch1_HASH} ${OLD_branch1_HASH}
update refs/heads/branch2 ${NEW_branch2_HASH} ${OLD_branch2_HASH}
update refs/heads/branch3 ${NEW_branch3_HASH} ${OLD_branch3_HASH}
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This will simultaneously rebase *branch1*, *branch2*, and *branch3*, all
commits they have since *base*, playing them on top of *origin/main*.
These three branches may have commits on top of *base* that they have in
common, but that does not need to be the case.

* GIT
Part of the *git*(1) suite
