#+TITLE: Manpages - importctl.1
* NAME
importctl - Download, import or export disk images

* SYNOPSIS
*importctl* [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND} [NAME...]

* DESCRIPTION
*importctl* may be used to download, import, and export disk images via
*systemd-importd.service*(8).

*importctl* operates both on block-level disk images (such as DDIs) as
well as file-system-level images (tarballs). It supports disk images are
one of the four following classes:

#+begin_quote
路

VM images or full OS container images, that may be run via
*systemd-vmspawn*(1) or *systemd-nspawn*(1), and managed via
*machinectl*(1).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Portable service images, that may be attached an managed via
*portablectl*(1).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

System extension (sysext) images, that may be activated via
*systemd-sysext*(8).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Configuration extension (confext) images, that may be activated via
*systemd-confext*(8).

#+end_quote

When images are downloaded or imported they are placed in the following
directories, depending on the *--class=* parameter:

\\
*Table 1. Classes and Directories*

| Class      | Directory            |
| "machine"  | /var/lib/machines/   |
| "portable" | /var/lib/portables/  |
| "sysext"   | /var/lib/extensions/ |
| "confext"  | /var/lib/confexts/   |

* COMMANDS
The following commands are understood:

*pull-tar* /URL/ [/NAME/]

#+begin_quote
Downloads a .tar image from the specified URL, and makes it available
under the specified local name in the image directory for the selected
*--class=*. The URL must be of type "http://" or "https://", and must
refer to a .tar, .tar.gz, .tar.xz or .tar.bz2 archive file. If the local
image name is omitted, it is automatically derived from the last
component of the URL, with its suffix removed.

The image is verified before it is made available, unless *--verify=no*
is specified. Verification is done either via an inline signed file with
the name of the image and the suffix .sha256 or via separate SHA256SUMS
and SHA256SUMS.gpg files. The signature files need to be made available
on the same web server, under the same URL as the .tar file. With
*--verify=checksum*, only the SHA256 checksum for the file is verified,
based on the .sha256 suffixed file or the SHA256SUMS file. With
*--verify=signature*, the sha checksum file is first verified with the
inline signature in the .sha256 file or the detached GPG signature file
SHA256SUMS.gpg. The public key for this verification step needs to be
available in /usr/lib/systemd/import-pubring.gpg or
/etc/systemd/import-pubring.gpg.

If *-keep-download=yes* is specified the image will be downloaded and
stored in a read-only subvolume/directory in the image directory that is
named after the specified URL and its HTTP etag. A writable snapshot is
then taken from this subvolume, and named after the specified local
name. This behavior ensures that creating multiple instances of the same
URL is efficient, as multiple downloads are not necessary. In order to
create only the read-only image, and avoid creating its writable
snapshot, specify "-" as local name.

Note that pressing C-c during execution of this command will not abort
the download. Use *cancel-transfer*, described below.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*pull-raw* /URL/ [/NAME/]

#+begin_quote
Downloads a .raw disk image from the specified URL, and makes it
available under the specified local name in the image directory for the
selected *--class=*. The URL must be of type "http://" or "https://".
The image must either be a .qcow2 or raw disk image, optionally
compressed as .gz, .xz, or .bz2. If the local name is omitted, it is
automatically derived from the last component of the URL, with its
suffix removed.

Image verification is identical for raw and tar images (see above).

If the downloaded image is in .qcow2 format it is converted into a raw
image file before it is made available.

If *-keep-download=yes* is specified the image will be downloaded and
stored in a read-only file in the image directory that is named after
the specified URL and its HTTP etag. A writable copy is then made from
this file, and named after the specified local name. This behavior
ensures that creating multiple instances of the same URL is efficient,
as multiple downloads are not necessary. In order to create only the
read-only image, and avoid creating its writable copy, specify "-" as
local name.

Note that pressing C-c during execution of this command will not abort
the download. Use *cancel-transfer*, described below.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*import-tar* /FILE/ [/NAME/], *import-raw* /FILE/ [/NAME/]

#+begin_quote
Imports a TAR or RAW image, and places it under the specified name in
the image directory for the image class selected via *--class=*. When
*import-tar* is used, the file specified as the first argument should be
a tar archive, possibly compressed with xz, gzip or bzip2. It will then
be unpacked into its own subvolume/directory. When *import-raw* is used,
the file should be a qcow2 or raw disk image, possibly compressed with
xz, gzip or bzip2. If the second argument (the resulting image name) is
not specified, it is automatically derived from the file name. If the
filename is passed as "-", the image is read from standard input, in
which case the second argument is mandatory.

No cryptographic validation is done when importing the images.

Much like image downloads, ongoing imports may be listed with *list* and
aborted with *cancel-transfer*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*import-fs* /DIRECTORY/ [/NAME/]

#+begin_quote
Imports an image stored in a local directory into the image directory
for the image class selected via *--class=* and operates similarly to
*import-tar* or *import-raw*, but the first argument is the source
directory. If supported, this command will create a btrfs snapshot or
subvolume for the new image.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*export-tar* /NAME/ [/FILE/], *export-raw* /NAME/ [/FILE/]

#+begin_quote
Exports a TAR or RAW image and stores it in the specified file. The
first parameter should be an image name. The second parameter should be
a file path the TAR or RAW image is written to. If the path ends in
".gz", the file is compressed with gzip, if it ends in ".xz", with xz,
and if it ends in ".bz2", with bzip2. If the path ends in neither, the
file is left uncompressed. If the second argument is missing, the image
is written to standard output. The compression may also be explicitly
selected with the *--format=* switch. This is in particular useful if
the second parameter is left unspecified.

Much like image downloads and imports, ongoing exports may be listed
with *list* and aborted with *cancel-transfer*.

Note that, currently, only directory and subvolume images may be
exported as TAR images, and only raw disk images as RAW images.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*list-transfer*

#+begin_quote
Shows a list of image downloads, imports and exports that are currently
in progress.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*cancel-transfer* /ID/...

#+begin_quote
Aborts a download, import or export of the image with the specified ID.
To list ongoing transfers and their IDs, use *list*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*list-images*

#+begin_quote
Shows a list of already downloaded/imported images.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*--read-only*

#+begin_quote
When used with *pull-raw*, *pull-tar*, *import-raw*, *import-tar* or
*import-fs* a read-only image is created.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--verify=*

#+begin_quote
When downloading an image, specify whether the image shall be verified
before it is made available. Takes one of "no", "checksum" and
"signature". If "no", no verification is done. If "checksum" is
specified, the download is checked for integrity after the transfer is
complete, but no signatures are verified. If "signature" is specified,
the checksum is verified and the images signature is checked against a
local keyring of trustable vendors. It is strongly recommended to set
this option to "signature" if the server and protocol support this.
Defaults to "signature".

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--force*

#+begin_quote
When downloading an image, and a local copy by the specified local name
already exists, delete it first and replace it by the newly downloaded
image.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--format=*

#+begin_quote
When used with the *export-tar* or *export-raw* commands, specifies the
compression format to use for the resulting file. Takes one of
"uncompressed", "xz", "gzip", "bzip2". By default, the format is
determined automatically from the output image file name passed.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-q*, *--quiet*

#+begin_quote
Suppresses additional informational output while running.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-H*, *--host=*

#+begin_quote
Execute the operation remotely. Specify a hostname, or a username and
hostname separated by "@", to connect to. The hostname may optionally be
suffixed by a port ssh is listening on, separated by ":", and then a
container name, separated by "/", which connects directly to a specific
container on the specified host. This will use SSH to talk to the remote
machine manager instance. Container names may be enumerated with
*machinectl -H */HOST/. Put IPv6 addresses in brackets.

#+end_quote

*-M*, *--machine=*

#+begin_quote
Connect to *systemd-import.service*(8) running in a local container, to
perform the specified operation within the container.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--class=*, *-m*, *-P*, *-S*, *-C*

#+begin_quote
Selects the image class for the downloaded images. This primarily
selects the directory to download into. The *--class=* switch takes
"machine", "portable", "sysext" or "confext" as argument. The short
options *-m*, *-P*, *-S*, *-C* are shortcuts for *--class=machine*,
*--class=portable*, *--class=sysext*, *--class=confext*.

Note that *--keep-download=* defaults to true for *--class=machine* and
false otherwise, see below.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--keep-download=*, *-N*

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When specified with *pull-raw* or *pull-tar*,
selects whether to download directly into the specified local image
name, or whether to download into a read-only copy first of which to
make a writable copy after the download is completed. Defaults to true
for *--class=machine*, false otherwise.

The *-N* switch is a shortcut for *--keep-download=no*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--json=*/MODE/

#+begin_quote
Shows output formatted as JSON. Expects one of "short" (for the shortest
possible output without any redundant whitespace or line breaks),
"pretty" (for a pretty version of the same, with indentation and line
breaks) or "off" (to turn off JSON output, the default).

#+end_quote

*-j*

#+begin_quote
Equivalent to *--json=pretty* if running on a terminal, and
*--json=short* otherwise.

#+end_quote

*--no-pager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager.

#+end_quote

*--no-legend*

#+begin_quote
Do not print the legend, i.e. column headers and the footer with hints.

#+end_quote

*--no-ask-password*

#+begin_quote
Do not query the user for authentication for privileged operations.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Download an Ubuntu TAR image and open a shell in it*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# importctl pull-tar -mN https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/jammy/current/jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64-root.tar.xz
# systemd-nspawn -M jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64-root
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This downloads and verifies the specified .tar image, and then uses
*systemd-nspawn*(1) to open a shell in it.

*Example 2. Download an Ubuntu RAW image, set a root password in it,
start it as a service*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# importctl pull-raw -mN \
      https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/jammy/current/jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64-disk-kvm.img \
      jammy
# systemd-firstboot --image=/var/lib/machines/jammy.raw --prompt-root-password --force
# machinectl start jammy
# machinectl login jammy
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This downloads the specified .raw image and makes it available under the
local name "jammy". Then, a root password is set with
*systemd-firstboot*(1). Afterwards the machine is started as system
service. With the last command a login prompt into the container is
requested.

*Example 3. Exports a container image as tar file*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# importctl export-tar -m fedora myfedora.tar.xz
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Exports the container "fedora" as an xz-compressed tar file
myfedora.tar.xz into the current directory.

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* ENVIRONMENT
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/

#+begin_quote
The maximum log level of emitted messages (messages with a higher log
level, i.e. less important ones, will be suppressed). Takes a
comma-separated list of values. A value may be either one of (in order
of decreasing importance) *emerg*, *alert*, *crit*, *err*, *warning*,
*notice*, *info*, *debug*, or an integer in the range 0...7. See
*syslog*(3) for more information. Each value may optionally be prefixed
with one of *console*, *syslog*, *kmsg* or *journal* followed by a colon
to set the maximum log level for that specific log target (e.g.
*SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info* specifies to log at debug level
except when logging to the console which should be at info level). Note
that the global maximum log level takes priority over any per target
maximum log levels.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages written to the tty will be colored
according to priority.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display logs will
color messages based on the log level on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, console log messages will be prefixed with a
timestamp.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal or a file, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display
logs will attach timestamps based on the entry metadata on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line
number in the source code where the message originates.

Note that the log location is often attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TID/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with the current numerical
thread ID (TID).

Note that the this information is attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/

#+begin_quote
The destination for log messages. One of *console* (log to the attached
tty), *console-prefixed* (log to the attached tty but with prefixes
encoding the log level and "facility", see *syslog*(3), *kmsg* (log to
the kernel circular log buffer), *journal* (log to the journal),
*journal-or-kmsg* (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), *auto* (determine the appropriate log target automatically,
the default), *null* (disable log output).

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG/

#+begin_quote
Whether to ratelimit kmsg or not. Takes a boolean. Defaults to "true".
If disabled, systemd will not ratelimit messages written to kmsg.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGER/

#+begin_quote
Pager to use when *--no-pager* is not given; overrides /$PAGER/. If
neither /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ nor /$PAGER/ are set, a set of well-known pager
implementations are tried in turn, including *less*(1) and *more*(1),
until one is found. If no pager implementation is discovered no pager is
invoked. Setting this environment variable to an empty string or the
value "cat" is equivalent to passing *--no-pager*.

Note: if /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set, /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ (as well as
/$PAGER/) will be silently ignored.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESS/

#+begin_quote
Override the options passed to *less* (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular:

*K*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is
pressed. To allow *less* to handle Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the
pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of /$SYSTEMD_LESS/ does not include "K", and the pager that
is invoked is *less*, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and
needs to be handled by the pager.

#+end_quote

*X*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to not send termcap initialization and
deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by default to allow
command output to remain visible in the terminal even after the pager
exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

#+end_quote

Note that setting the regular /$LESS/ environment variable has no effect
for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

See *less*(1) for more discussion.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET/

#+begin_quote
Override the charset passed to *less* (by default "utf-8", if the
invoking terminal is determined to be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular /$LESSCHARSET/ environment variable has no
effect for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, the "secure" mode of the pager is
enabled; if false, disabled. If /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at
all, secure mode is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the
owner of the login session, see *geteuid*(2) and
*sd_pid_get_owner_uid*(3). In secure mode, *LESSSECURE=1* will be set
when invoking the pager, and the pager shall disable commands that open
or create new files or start new subprocesses. When
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at all, pagers which are not known to
implement secure mode will not be used. (Currently only *less*(1)
implements secure mode.)

Note: when commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for example
under *sudo*(8) or *pkexec*(1), care must be taken to ensure that
unintended interactive features are not enabled. "Secure" mode for the
pager may be enabled automatically as describe above. Setting
/SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0/ or not removing it from the inherited
environment allows the user to invoke arbitrary commands. Note that if
the /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ or /$PAGER/ variables are to be honoured,
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ must be set too. It might be reasonable to
completely disable the pager using *--no-pager* instead.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_COLORS/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, *systemd* and related utilities
will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following
special values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16
or 256 ANSI colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the
automatic decision based on /$TERM/ and what the console is connected
to.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_URLIFY/

#+begin_quote
The value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be
generated in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can
be specified to override the decision that *systemd* makes based on
/$TERM/ and other conditions.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd-importd.service*(8), *systemd-nspawn*(1),
*systemd-vmspawn*(1), *machinectl*(1), *portablectl*(1),
*systemd-sysext*(8), *systemd-confext*(8), *tar*(1), *xz*(1), *gzip*(1),
*bzip2*(1)
