#+TITLE: Manpages - ipcs.1
* NAME
ipcs - show information on IPC facilities

* SYNOPSIS
*ipcs* [options]

* DESCRIPTION
*ipcs* shows information on System V inter-process communication
facilities. By default it shows information about all three resources:
shared memory segments, message queues, and semaphore arrays.

* OPTIONS
*-i*, *--id* /id/

#+begin_quote
Show full details on just the one resource element identified by /id/.
This option needs to be combined with one of the three resource options:
*-m*, *-q* or *-s*.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

** Resource options
*-m*, *--shmems*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active shared memory segments.

#+end_quote

*-q*, *--queues*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active message queues.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--semaphores*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active semaphore sets.

#+end_quote

*-a*, *--all*

#+begin_quote
Write information about all three resources (default).

#+end_quote

** Output formats
Of these options only one takes effect: the last one specified.

*-c*, *--creator*

#+begin_quote
Show creator and owner.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--limits*

#+begin_quote
Show resource limits.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--pid*

#+begin_quote
Show PIDs of creator and last operator.

#+end_quote

*-t*, *--time*

#+begin_quote
Write time information. The time of the last control operation that
changed the access permissions for all facilities, the time of the last
*msgsnd*(2) and *msgrcv*(2) operations on message queues, the time of
the last *shmat*(2) and *shmdt*(2) operations on shared memory, and the
time of the last *semop*(2) operation on semaphores.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--summary*

#+begin_quote
Show status summary.

#+end_quote

** Representation
These affect only the *-l* (*--limits*) option.

*-b*, *--bytes*

#+begin_quote
Print the sizes in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.

By default, the unit, sizes are expressed in, is byte, and unit prefixes
are in power of 2^10 (1024). Abbreviations of symbols are exhibited
truncated in order to reach a better readability, by exhibiting alone
the first letter of them; examples: "1 KiB" and "1 MiB" are respectively
exhibited as "1 K" and "1 M", then omitting on purpose the mention "iB",
which is part of these abbreviations.

#+end_quote

*--human*

#+begin_quote
Print sizes in human-readable format.

#+end_quote

* CONFORMING TO
The Linux *ipcs* utility is not fully compatible to the POSIX *ipcs*
utility. The Linux version does not support the POSIX *-a*, *-b* and
*-o* options, but does support the *-l* and *-u* options not defined by
POSIX. A portable application shall not use the *-a*, *-b*, *-o*, *-l*,
and *-u* options.

* NOTES
The current implementation of *ipcs* obtains information about available
IPC resources by parsing the files in //proc/sysvipc/. Before util-linux
version v2.23, an alternate mechanism was used: the *IPC_STAT* command
of *msgctl*(2), *semctl*(2), and *shmctl*(2). This mechanism is also
used in later util-linux versions in the case where //proc/ is
unavailable. A limitation of the *IPC_STAT* mechanism is that it can
only be used to retrieve information about IPC resources for which the
user has read permission.

* AUTHORS
* SEE ALSO
*ipcmk*(1), *ipcrm*(1), *msgrcv*(2), *msgsnd*(2), *semget*(2),
*semop*(2), *shmat*(2), *shmdt*(2), *shmget*(2), *sysvipc*(7)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *ipcs* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
