#+TITLE: Manpages - logger.1
* NAME
logger - enter messages into the system log

* SYNOPSIS
*logger* [options] /message/

* DESCRIPTION
*logger* makes entries in the system log.

When the optional /message/ argument is present, it is written to the
log. If it is not present, and the *-f* option is not given either, then
standard input is logged.

* OPTIONS
*-d*, *--udp*

#+begin_quote
Use datagrams (UDP) only. By default the connection is tried to the
syslog port defined in //etc/services/, which is often 514.

See also *--server* and *--socket* to specify where to connect.

#+end_quote

*-e*, *--skip-empty*

#+begin_quote
Ignore empty lines when processing files. An empty line is defined to be
a line without any characters. Thus a line consisting only of whitespace
is NOT considered empty. Note that when the *--prio-prefix* option is
specified, the priority is not part of the line. Thus an empty line in
this mode is a line that does not have any characters after the priority
prefix (e.g., *<13>*).

#+end_quote

*-f*, *--file* /file/

#+begin_quote
Log the contents of the specified /file/. This option cannot be combined
with a command-line message.

#+end_quote

*-i*

#+begin_quote
Log the PID of the *logger* process with each line.

#+end_quote

*--id*[*=*/id/]

#+begin_quote
Log the PID of the *logger* process with each line. When the optional
argument /id/ is specified, then it is used instead of the *logger*
command's PID. The use of *--id=$$* (PPID) is recommended in scripts
that send several messages.

Note that the system logging infrastructure (for example *systemd* when
listening on //dev/log/) may follow local socket credentials to
overwrite the PID specified in the message. *logger*(1) is able to set
those socket credentials to the given /id/, but only if you have root
permissions and a process with the specified PID exists, otherwise the
socket credentials are not modified and the problem is silently ignored.

#+end_quote

*--journald*[*=*/file/]

#+begin_quote
Write a *systemd* journal entry. The entry is read from the given
/file/, when specified, otherwise from standard input. Each line must
begin with a field that is accepted by *journald*; see
*systemd.journal-fields*(7) for details. The use of a MESSAGE_ID field
is generally a good idea, as it makes finding entries easy. Examples:

#+begin_quote

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
logger --journald <<end
MESSAGE_ID=67feb6ffbaf24c5cbec13c008dd72309
MESSAGE=The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
DOGS=bark
CARAVAN=goes on
end
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
logger --journald=entry.txt
#+end_example

#+end_quote

\\

#+end_quote

Notice that *--journald* will ignore values of other options, such as
priority. If priority is needed it must be within input, and use
PRIORITY field. The simple execution of *journalctl*(1) will display
MESSAGE field. Use *journalctl --output json-pretty* to see rest of the
fields.

To include newlines in MESSAGE, specify MESSAGE several times. This is
handled as a special case, other fields will be stored as an array in
the journal if they appear multiple times.

#+end_quote

*--msgid* /msgid/

#+begin_quote
Sets the /RFC 5424/ <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424> MSGID field.
Note that the space character is not permitted inside of /msgid/. This
option is only used if *--rfc5424* is specified as well; otherwise, it
is silently ignored.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--server* /server/

#+begin_quote
Write to the specified remote syslog /server/ instead of to the system
log socket. Unless *--udp* or *--tcp* is specified, *logger* will first
try to use UDP, but if this fails a TCP connection is attempted.

#+end_quote

*--no-act*

#+begin_quote
Causes everything to be done except for writing the log message to the
system log, and removing the connection to the journal. This option can
be used together with *--stderr* for testing purposes.

#+end_quote

*--octet-count*

#+begin_quote
Use the /RFC 6587/ <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6587> octet counting
framing method for sending messages. When this option is not used, the
default is no framing on UDP, and RFC6587 non-transparent framing (also
known as octet stuffing) on TCP.

#+end_quote

*-P*, *--port* /port/

#+begin_quote
Use the specified /port/. When this option is not specified, the port
defaults to *syslog* for udp and to *syslog-conn* for tcp connections.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--priority* /priority/

#+begin_quote
Enter the message into the log with the specified /priority/. The
priority may be specified numerically or as a /facility/./level/ pair.
For example, *-p local3.info* logs the message as informational in the
local3 facility. The default is *user.notice*.

#+end_quote

*--prio-prefix*

#+begin_quote
Look for a syslog prefix on every line read from standard input. This
prefix is a decimal number within angle brackets that encodes both the
facility and the level. The number is constructed by multiplying the
facility by 8 and then adding the level. For example, *local0.info*,
meaning facility=16 and level=6, becomes *<134>*.

If the prefix contains no facility, the facility defaults to what is
specified by the *-p* option. Similarly, if no prefix is provided, the
line is logged using the /priority/ given with *-p*.

This option doesn't affect a command-line message.

#+end_quote

*--rfc3164*

#+begin_quote
Use the /RFC 3164/ <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3164> BSD syslog
protocol to submit messages to a remote server.

#+end_quote

*--rfc5424*[*=*/without/]

#+begin_quote
Use the /RFC 5424/ <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424> syslog protocol
to submit messages to a remote server. The optional /without/ argument
can be a comma-separated list of the following values: *notq*, *notime*,
*nohost*.

The *notq* value suppresses the time-quality structured data from the
submitted message. The time-quality information shows whether the local
clock was synchronized plus the maximum number of microseconds the
timestamp might be off. The time quality is also automatically
suppressed when *--sd-id timeQuality* is specified.

The *notime* value (which implies *notq*) suppresses the complete sender
timestamp that is in ISO-8601 format, including microseconds and
timezone.

The *nohost* value suppresses *gethostname*(2) information from the
message header.

The RFC 5424 protocol has been the default for *logger* since version
2.26.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--stderr*

#+begin_quote
Output the message to standard error as well as to the system log.

#+end_quote

*--sd-id* /name/[*@*/digits/]

#+begin_quote
Specifies a structured data element ID for an RFC 5424 message header.
The option has to be used before *--sd-param* to introduce a new
element. The number of structured data elements is unlimited. The ID
(/name/ plus possibly *@*/digits/) is case-sensitive and uniquely
identifies the type and purpose of the element. The same ID must not
exist more than once in a message. The *@*/digits/ part is required for
user-defined non-standardized IDs.

*logger* currently generates the *timeQuality* standardized element
only. RFC 5424 also describes the elements *origin* (with parameters
*ip*, *enterpriseId*, *software* and *swVersion*) and *meta* (with
parameters *sequenceId*, *sysUpTime* and *language*). These element IDs
may be specified without the *@*/digits/ suffix.

#+end_quote

*--sd-param* /name/=/value/

#+begin_quote
Specifies a structured data element parameter, a name and value pair.
The option has to be used after *--sd-id* and may be specified more than
once for the same element. Note that the quotation marks around /value/
are required and must be escaped on the command line.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
    logger --rfc5424 --sd-id zoo@123             \
                     --sd-param tiger="hungry"   \
                     --sd-param zebra="running"  \
                     --sd-id manager@123         \
                     --sd-param onMeeting="yes"  \
                     "this is message"
#+end_example

#+end_quote

produces:

*<13>1 2015-10-01T14:07:59.168662+02:00 ws kzak - - [timeQuality
tzKnown="1" isSynced="1" syncAccuracy="218616"][zoo@123 tiger="hungry"
zebra="running"][manager@123 onMeeting="yes"] this is message*

#+end_quote

*-S*, *--size* /size/

#+begin_quote
Sets the maximum permitted message size to /size/. The default is 1KiB
characters, which is the limit traditionally used and specified in
RFC 3164. With RFC 5424, this limit has become flexible. A good
assumption is that RFC 5424 receivers can at least process 4KiB
messages.

Most receivers accept messages larger than 1KiB over any type of syslog
protocol. As such, the *--size* option affects *logger* in all cases
(not only when *--rfc5424* was used).

Note: the message-size limit limits the overall message size, including
the syslog header. Header sizes vary depending on the selected options
and the hostname length. As a rule of thumb, headers are usually not
longer than 50 to 80 characters. When selecting a maximum message size,
it is important to ensure that the receiver supports the max size as
well, otherwise messages may become truncated. Again, as a rule of thumb
two to four KiB message size should generally be OK, whereas anything
larger should be verified to work.

#+end_quote

*--socket-errors*[*=*/mode/]

#+begin_quote
Print errors about Unix socket connections. The /mode/ can be a value of
*off*, *on*, or *auto*. When the mode is *auto*, then *logger* will
detect if the init process is *systemd*(1), and if so assumption is made
//dev/log/ can be used early at boot. Other init systems lack of
//dev/log/ will not cause errors that is identical with messaging using
*openlog*(3) system call. The *logger*(1) before version 2.26 used
*openlog*(3), and hence was unable to detected loss of messages sent to
Unix sockets.

The default mode is *auto*. When errors are not enabled lost messages
are not communicated and will result to successful exit status of
*logger*(1) invocation.

#+end_quote

*-T*, *--tcp*

#+begin_quote
Use stream (TCP) only. By default the connection is tried to the
/syslog-conn/ port defined in //etc/services/, which is often /601/.

See also *--server* and *--socket* to specify where to connect.

#+end_quote

*-t*, *--tag* /tag/

#+begin_quote
Mark every line to be logged with the specified /tag/. The default tag
is the name of the user logged in on the terminal (or a user name based
on effective user ID).

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--socket* /socket/

#+begin_quote
Write to the specified /socket/ instead of to the system log socket.

#+end_quote

*--*

#+begin_quote
End the argument list. This allows the /message/ to start with a hyphen
(-).

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
The *logger* utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

* FACILITIES AND LEVELS
Valid facility names are:

*auth*\\
*authpriv* for security information of a sensitive nature\\
*cron*\\

*daemon*\\
*ftp*\\
*kern* cannot be generated from userspace process, automatically
converted to *user*\\

*lpr*\\
*mail*\\
*news*\\
*syslog*\\
*user*\\
*uucp*\\
*local0*\\
to\\
*local7*\\
*security* deprecated synonym for *auth*

Valid level names are:

*emerg*\\
*alert*\\
*crit*\\
*err*\\
*warning*\\
*notice*\\
*info*\\
*debug*\\
*panic* deprecated synonym for *emerg*\\
*error* deprecated synonym for *err*\\
*warn* deprecated synonym for *warning*\\

For the priority order and intended purposes of these facilities and
levels, see *syslog*(3).

* CONFORMING TO
The *logger* command is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2")
compatible.

* EXAMPLES

#+begin_quote
logger System rebooted

logger -p local0.notice -t HOSTIDM -f /dev/idmc

logger -n loghost.example.com System rebooted\\

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
The *logger* command was originally written by University of California
in 1983-1993 and later rewritten by

and

* SEE ALSO
*journalctl*(1), *syslog*(3), *systemd.journal-fields*(7)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *logger* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
