#+TITLE: Manpages - lsipc.1
* NAME
lsipc - show information on IPC facilities currently employed in the
system

* SYNOPSIS
*lsipc* [options]

* DESCRIPTION
*lsipc* shows information on the System V inter-process communication
facilities for which the calling process has read access.

* OPTIONS
*-i*, *--id* /id/

#+begin_quote
Show full details on just the one resource element identified by /id/.
This option needs to be combined with one of the three resource options:
*-m*, *-q* or *-s*. It is possible to override the default output format
for this option with the *--list*, *--raw*, *--json* or *--export*
option.

#+end_quote

*-g*, *--global*

#+begin_quote
Show system-wide usage and limits of IPC resources. This option may be
combined with one of the three resource options: *-m*, *-q* or *-s*. The
default is to show information about all resources.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

** Resource options
*-m*, *--shmems*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active shared memory segments.

#+end_quote

*-q*, *--queues*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active message queues.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--semaphores*

#+begin_quote
Write information about active semaphore sets.

#+end_quote

** Output formatting
*-c*, *--creator*

#+begin_quote
Show creator and owner.

#+end_quote

*-e*, *--export*

#+begin_quote
Produce output in the form of key="value" pairs. All potentially unsafe
value characters are hex-escaped (\x<code>). See also option *--shell*.

#+end_quote

*-J*, *--json*

#+begin_quote
Use the JSON output format.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--list*

#+begin_quote
Use the list output format. This is the default, except when *--id* is
used.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--newline*

#+begin_quote
Display each piece of information on a separate line.

#+end_quote

*--noheadings*

#+begin_quote
Do not print a header line.

#+end_quote

*--notruncate*

#+begin_quote
Don't truncate output.

#+end_quote

*-o*, *--output* /list/

#+begin_quote
Specify which output columns to print. Use *--help* to get a list of all
supported columns.

#+end_quote

*-b*, *--bytes*

#+begin_quote
Print size in bytes rather than in human readable format.

#+end_quote

*-r*, *--raw*

#+begin_quote
Raw output (no columnation).

#+end_quote

*-t*, *--time*

#+begin_quote
Write time information. The time of the last control operation that
changed the access permissions for all facilities, the time of the last
*msgsnd*(2) and *msgrcv*(2) operations on message queues, the time of
the last *shmat*(2) and *shmdt*(2) operations on shared memory, and the
time of the last *semop*(2) operation on semaphores.

#+end_quote

*--time-format* /type/

#+begin_quote
Display dates in short, full or iso format. The default is short, this
time format is designed to be space efficient and human readable.

#+end_quote

*-P*, *--numeric-perms*

#+begin_quote
Print numeric permissions in PERMS column.

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--shell*

#+begin_quote
The column name will be modified to contain only characters allowed for
shell variable identifiers. This is usable, for example, with
*--export*. Note that this feature has been automatically enabled for
*--export* in version 2.37, but due to compatibility issues, now it's
necessary to request this behavior by *--shell*.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
0

#+begin_quote
if OK,

#+end_quote

1

#+begin_quote
if incorrect arguments specified,

#+end_quote

2

#+begin_quote
if a serious error occurs.

#+end_quote

* HISTORY
The *lsipc* utility is inspired by the *ipcs*(1) utility.

* AUTHORS
* SEE ALSO
*ipcmk*(1), *ipcrm*(1), *msgrcv*(2), *msgsnd*(2), *semget*(2),
*semop*(2), *shmat*(2), *shmdt*(2), *shmget*(2), *sysvipc*(7)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *lsipc* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
