#+TITLE: Manpages - lslogins.1
* NAME
lslogins - display information about known users in the system

* SYNOPSIS
*lslogins* [options] [*-s*|*-u*[=/UID/]] [*-g* /groups/] [*-l* /logins/]
[/username/]

* DESCRIPTION
Examine the wtmp and btmp logs, //etc/shadow/ (if necessary) and
//passwd/ and output the desired data.

The optional argument /username/ forces *lslogins* to print all
available details about the specified user only. In this case the output
format is different than in case of *-l* or *-g* and unknown is
/username/ reported as an error.

The default action is to list info about all the users in the system.

* OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

*-a*, *--acc-expiration*

#+begin_quote
Display data about the date of last password change and the account
expiration date (see *shadow*(5) for more info). (Requires root
privileges.)

#+end_quote

*--btmp-file* /path/

#+begin_quote
Alternate path for btmp.

#+end_quote

*-c*, *--colon-separate*

#+begin_quote
Separate info about each user with a colon instead of a newline.

#+end_quote

*-e*, *--export*

#+begin_quote
Output data in the format of NAME=VALUE. See also option *--shell*.

#+end_quote

*-f*, *--failed*

#+begin_quote
Display data about the users last failed login attempts.

#+end_quote

*-G*, *--supp-groups*

#+begin_quote
Show information about supplementary groups.

#+end_quote

*-g*, *--groups*=/groups/

#+begin_quote
Only show data of users belonging to /groups/. More than one group may
be specified; the list has to be comma-separated. Unknown group names
are ignored.

Note that the relation between user and group may be invisible for the
primary group if the user is not explicitly specified as group member
(e.g., in //etc/group/). If the command *lslogins* scans for groups then
it uses the groups database only, and the user database with primary GID
is not used at all.

#+end_quote

*-L*, *--last*

#+begin_quote
Display data containing information about the users last login sessions.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--logins*=/logins/

#+begin_quote
Only show data of users with a login specified in /logins/ (user names
or user IDs). More than one login may be specified; the list has to be
comma-separated. Unknown login names are ignored.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--newline*

#+begin_quote
Display each piece of information on a separate line.

#+end_quote

*--noheadings*

#+begin_quote
Do not print a header line.

#+end_quote

*--notruncate*

#+begin_quote
Don't truncate output.

#+end_quote

*-o*, *--output* /list/

#+begin_quote
Specify which output columns to print. The default list of columns may
be extended if /list/ is specified in the format /+list/.

#+end_quote

*--output-all*

#+begin_quote
Output all available columns. *--help* to get a list of all supported
columns.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--pwd*

#+begin_quote
Display information related to login by password (see also *-afL*).

#+end_quote

*-r*, *--raw*

#+begin_quote
Raw output (no columnation).

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--system-accs*

#+begin_quote
Show system accounts. These are by default all accounts with a UID
between 101 and 999 (inclusive), with the exception of either nobody or
nfsnobody (UID 65534). This hardcoded default may be overwritten by
parameters *SYS_UID_MIN* and *SYS_UID_MAX* in the file
//etc/login.defs/.

#+end_quote

*--time-format* /type/

#+begin_quote
Display dates in short, full or iso format. The default is short, this
time format is designed to be space efficient and human readable.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--user-accs*

#+begin_quote
Show user accounts. These are by default all accounts with UID above
1000 (inclusive), with the exception of either nobody or nfsnobody (UID
65534). This hardcoded default maybe overwritten by parameters UID_MIN
and UID_MAX in the file //etc/login.defs/.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

*--wtmp-file* /path/

#+begin_quote
Alternate path for wtmp.

#+end_quote

*--lastlog* /path/

#+begin_quote
Alternate path for *lastlog*(8).

#+end_quote

*-y*, *--shell*

#+begin_quote
The column name will be modified to contain only characters allowed for
shell variable identifiers. This is usable, for example, with
*--export*. Note that this feature has been automatically enabled for
*--export* in version 2.37, but due to compatibility issues, now it's
necessary to request this behavior by *--shell*.

#+end_quote

*-Z*, *--context*

#+begin_quote
Display the users security context.

#+end_quote

*-z*, *--print0*

#+begin_quote
Delimit user entries with a nul character, instead of a newline.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
0

#+begin_quote
if OK,

#+end_quote

1

#+begin_quote
if incorrect arguments specified,

#+end_quote

2

#+begin_quote
if a serious error occurs (e.g., a corrupt log).

#+end_quote

* NOTES
The default UID thresholds are read from //etc/login.defs/.

** Password status
Multiple fields describe password status.

*"Password is locked"*

#+begin_quote
The password is prefixed by !!, and the user cannot login although the
password is set or empty. This is common for new accounts without a set
password.

#+end_quote

*"Password not required (empty)"*

#+begin_quote
The password is not set (hash is missing); this is common for locked
system accounts. Not requiring a password does not mean the user can
log-in without a password. It depends on the password "lock" status.

#+end_quote

*"Login by password disabled"*

#+begin_quote
yes means that there is no valid password. The password hash is missing,
or the hash method is unknown or contains invalid chars.

#+end_quote

* HISTORY
The *lslogins* utility is inspired by the *logins* utility, which first
appeared in FreeBSD 4.10.

* AUTHORS
* SEE ALSO
*group*(5), *passwd*(5), *shadow*(5), *utmp*(5)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *lslogins* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
