#+TITLE: Manpages - lsmem.1
* NAME
lsmem - list the ranges of available memory with their online status

* SYNOPSIS
*lsmem* [options]

* DESCRIPTION
The *lsmem* command lists the ranges of available memory with their
online status. The listed memory blocks correspond to the memory block
representation in sysfs. The command also shows the memory block size
and the amount of memory in online and offline state.

The default output is compatible with original implementation from
s390-tools, but it's strongly recommended to avoid using default outputs
in your scripts. Always explicitly define expected columns by using the
*--output* option together with a columns list in environments where a
stable output is required.

The *lsmem* command lists a new memory range always when the current
memory block distinguish from the previous block by some output column.
This default behavior is possible to override by the *--split* option
(e.g., *lsmem --split=ZONES*). The special word "none" may be used to
ignore all differences between memory blocks and to create as large as
possible continuous ranges. The opposite semantic is *--all* to list
individual memory blocks.

Note that some output columns may provide inaccurate information if a
split policy forces *lsmem* to ignore differences in some attributes.
For example if you merge removable and non-removable memory blocks to
the one range than all the range will be marked as non-removable on
*lsmem* output.

Not all columns are supported on all systems. If an unsupported column
is specified, *lsmem* prints the column but does not provide any data
for it.

Use the *--help* option to see the columns description.

* OPTIONS
*-a*, *--all*

#+begin_quote
List each individual memory block, instead of combining memory blocks
with similar attributes.

#+end_quote

*-b*, *--bytes*

#+begin_quote
Print the sizes in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.

By default, the unit, sizes are expressed in, is byte, and unit prefixes
are in power of 2^10 (1024). Abbreviations of symbols are exhibited
truncated in order to reach a better readability, by exhibiting alone
the first letter of them; examples: "1 KiB" and "1 MiB" are respectively
exhibited as "1 K" and "1 M", then omitting on purpose the mention "iB",
which is part of these abbreviations.

#+end_quote

*-J*, *--json*

#+begin_quote
Use JSON output format.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--noheadings*

#+begin_quote
Do not print a header line.

#+end_quote

*-o*, *--output* /list/

#+begin_quote
Specify which output columns to print. Use *--help* to get a list of all
supported columns. The default list of columns may be extended if /list/
is specified in the format *+*/list/ (e.g., *lsmem -o +NODE*).

#+end_quote

*--output-all*

#+begin_quote
Output all available columns.

#+end_quote

*-P*, *--pairs*

#+begin_quote
Produce output in the form of key="value" pairs. All potentially unsafe
value characters are hex-escaped (\x<code>).

#+end_quote

*-r*, *--raw*

#+begin_quote
Produce output in raw format. All potentially unsafe characters are
hex-escaped (\x<code>).

#+end_quote

*-S*, *--split* /list/

#+begin_quote
Specify which columns (attributes) use to split memory blocks to ranges.
The supported columns are STATE, REMOVABLE, NODE and ZONES, or "none".
The other columns are silently ignored. For more details see
*DESCRIPTION* above.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--sysroot* /directory/

#+begin_quote
Gather memory data for a Linux instance other than the instance from
which the *lsmem* command is issued. The specified /directory/ is the
system root of the Linux instance to be inspected.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

*--summary*[=/when/]

#+begin_quote
This option controls summary lines output. The optional argument /when/
can be *never*, *always* or *only*. If the /when/ argument is omitted,
it defaults to *"only"*. The summary output is suppressed for *--raw*,
*--pairs* and *--json*.

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
*lsmem* was originally written by Gerald Schaefer for s390-tools in
Perl. The C version for util-linux was written by Clemens von Mann,
Heiko Carstens and Karel Zak.

* SEE ALSO
*chmem*(8)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *lsmem* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
