#+TITLE: Manpages - machinectl.1
* NAME
machinectl - Control the systemd machine manager

* SYNOPSIS
*machinectl* [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND} [NAME...]

* DESCRIPTION
*machinectl* may be used to introspect and control the state of the
*systemd*(1) virtual machine and container registration manager
*systemd-machined.service*(8).

*machinectl* may be used to execute operations on machines and images.
Machines in this sense are considered running instances of:

#+begin_quote
·

Virtual Machines (VMs) that virtualize hardware to run full operating
system (OS) instances (including their kernels) in a virtualized
environment on top of the host OS.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Containers that share the hardware and OS kernel with the host OS, in
order to run OS userspace instances on top the host OS.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

The host system itself.

#+end_quote

Machines are identified by names that follow the same rules as UNIX and
DNS hostnames. For details, see below.

Machines are instantiated from disk or file system images that
frequently --- but not necessarily --- carry the same name as machines
running from them. Images in this sense may be:

#+begin_quote
·

Directory trees containing an OS, including the top-level directories
/usr/, /etc/, and so on.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

btrfs subvolumes containing OS trees, similar to regular directory
trees.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Binary "raw" disk image files containing MBR or GPT partition tables and
Linux file systems.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Similarly, block devices containing MBR or GPT partition tables and file
systems.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

The file system tree of the host OS itself.

#+end_quote

Images may be downloaded, imported and exported via the *importctl*(1)
tool.

* COMMANDS
The following commands are understood:

** Machine Commands
*list*

#+begin_quote
List currently running (online) virtual machines and containers. To
enumerate machine images that can be started, use *list-images* (see
below). Note that this command hides the special ".host" machine by
default. Use the *--all* switch to show it.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*status* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Show runtime status information about one or more virtual machines and
containers, followed by the most recent log data from the journal. This
function is intended to generate human-readable output. If you are
looking for computer-parsable output, use *show* instead. Note that the
log data shown is reported by the virtual machine or container manager,
and frequently contains console output of the machine, but not
necessarily journal contents of the machine itself.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*show* [/NAME/...]

#+begin_quote
Show properties of one or more registered virtual machines or containers
or the manager itself. If no argument is specified, properties of the
manager will be shown. If a NAME is specified, properties of this
virtual machine or container are shown. By default, empty properties are
suppressed. Use *--all* to show those too. To select specific properties
to show, use *--property=*. This command is intended to be used whenever
computer-parsable output is required, and does not print the control
group tree or journal entries. Use *status* if you are looking for
formatted human-readable output.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*start* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Start a container as a system service, using *systemd-nspawn*(1). This
starts systemd-nspawn@.service, instantiated for the specified machine
name, similar to the effect of *systemctl start* on the service name.
*systemd-nspawn* looks for a container image by the specified name in
/var/lib/machines/ (and other search paths, see below) and runs it. Use
*list-images* (see below) for listing available container images to
start.

Note that *systemd-machined.service*(8) also interfaces with a variety
of other container and VM managers, *systemd-nspawn* is just one
implementation of it. Most of the commands available in *machinectl* may
be used on containers or VMs controlled by other managers, not just
*systemd-nspawn*. Starting VMs and container images on those managers
requires manager-specific tools.

To interactively start a container on the command line with full access
to the containers console, please invoke *systemd-nspawn* directly. To
stop a running container use *machinectl poweroff*.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*login* [/NAME/]

#+begin_quote
Open an interactive terminal login session in a container or on the
local host. If an argument is supplied, it refers to the container
machine to connect to. If none is specified, or the container name is
specified as the empty string, or the special machine name ".host" (see
below) is specified, the connection is made to the local host instead.
This will create a TTY connection to a specific container or the local
host and asks for the execution of a getty on it. Note that this is only
supported for containers running *systemd*(1) as init system.

This command will open a full login prompt on the container or the local
host, which then asks for username and password. Use *shell* (see below)
or *systemd-run*(1) with the *--machine=* switch to directly invoke a
single command, either interactively or in the background.

Added in version 209.

#+end_quote

*shell* [[/NAME/@]/NAME/ [/PATH/ [/ARGUMENTS/...]]]

#+begin_quote
Open an interactive shell session in a container or on the local host.
The first argument refers to the container machine to connect to. If
none is specified, or the machine name is specified as the empty string,
or the special machine name ".host" (see below) is specified, the
connection is made to the local host instead. This works similarly to
*login*, but immediately invokes a user process. This command runs the
specified executable with the specified arguments, or the default shell
for the user if none is specified, or /bin/sh if no default shell is
found. By default, *--uid=*, or by prefixing the machine name with a
username and an "@" character, a different user may be selected. Use
*--setenv=* to set environment variables for the executed process.

Note that *machinectl shell* does not propagate the exit code/status of
the invoked shell process. Use *systemd-run* instead if that information
is required (see below).

Using the *shell* command without arguments (thus invoking the executed
shell or command on the local host), is in many ways similar to a
*su*(1) session, but, unlike *su*, completely isolates the new session
from the originating session, so that it shares no process or session
properties and is in a clean well-defined state. It will be tracked in a
new utmp, login, audit, security, and keyring sessions, and will not
inherit any environment variables or resource limits, among other
properties.

Note that *systemd-run*(1) with its *--machine=* switch may be used in
place of the *machinectl shell* command, and allows non-interactive
operation, more detailed and low-level configuration of the invoked
unit, as well as access to runtime and exit code/status information of
the invoked shell process. In particular, use *systemd-run*s *--wait*
switch to propagate exit status information of the invoked process. Use
*systemd-run*s *--pty* switch to acquire an interactive shell, similarly
to *machinectl shell*. In general, *systemd-run* is preferable for
scripting purposes. However, note that *systemd-run* might require
higher privileges than *machinectl shell*.

Added in version 225.

#+end_quote

*enable* /NAME/..., *disable* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Enable or disable a container as a system service to start at system
boot, using *systemd-nspawn*(1). This enables or disables
systemd-nspawn@.service, instantiated for the specified machine name,
similarly to the effect of *systemctl enable* or *systemctl disable* on
the service name.

This command implicitly reloads the system manager configuration after
completing the operation. Note that this command does not implicitly
start or power off the containers that are being operated on. If this is
desired, combine the command with the *--now* switch.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*poweroff* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Power off one or more containers. This will trigger a reboot by sending
SIGRTMIN+4 to the containers init process, which causes
systemd-compatible init systems to shut down cleanly. Use *stop* as
alias for *poweroff*. This operation does not work on containers that do
not run a *systemd*(1)-compatible init system, such as sysvinit. Use
*terminate* (see below) to immediately terminate a container or VM,
without cleanly shutting it down.

Added in version 212.

#+end_quote

*reboot* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Reboot one or more containers. This will trigger a reboot by sending
SIGINT to the containers init process, which is roughly equivalent to
pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on a non-containerized system, and is compatible
with containers running any system manager. Use *restart* as alias for
*reboot*.

Added in version 209.

#+end_quote

*terminate* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Immediately terminates a virtual machine or container, without cleanly
shutting it down. This kills all processes of the virtual machine or
container and deallocates all resources attached to that instance. Use
*poweroff* to issue a clean shutdown request.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*kill* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Send a signal to one or more processes of the virtual machine or
container. This means processes as seen by the host, not the processes
inside the virtual machine or container. Use *--kill-whom=* to select
which process to kill. Use *--signal=* to select the signal to send.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*bind* /NAME/ /PATH/ [/PATH/]

#+begin_quote
Bind mounts a file or directory from the host into the specified
container. The first path argument is the source file or directory on
the host, the second path argument is the destination file or directory
in the container. When the latter is omitted, the destination path in
the container is the same as the source path on the host. When combined
with the *--read-only* switch, a ready-only bind mount is created. When
combined with the *--mkdir* switch, the destination path is first
created before the mount is applied. Note that this option is currently
only supported for *systemd-nspawn*(1) containers, and only if user
namespacing (*--private-users*) is not used. This command supports bind
mounting directories, regular files, device nodes, *AF_UNIX* socket
nodes, as well as FIFOs.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*copy-to* /NAME/ /PATH/ [/PATH/] *--force*

#+begin_quote
Copies files or directories from the host system into a running
container. Takes a container name, followed by the source path on the
host and the destination path in the container. If the destination path
is omitted, the same as the source path is used.

If host and container share the same user and group namespace, file
ownership by numeric user ID and group ID is preserved for the copy,
otherwise all files and directories in the copy will be owned by the
root user and group (UID/GID 0).

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*copy-from* /NAME/ /PATH/ [/PATH/] *--force*

#+begin_quote
Copies files or directories from a container into the host system. Takes
a container name, followed by the source path in the container and the
destination path on the host. If the destination path is omitted, the
same as the source path is used.

If host and container share the same user and group namespace, file
ownership by numeric user ID and group ID is preserved for the copy,
otherwise all files and directories in the copy will be owned by the
root user and group (UID/GID 0).

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

** Image Commands
*list-images*

#+begin_quote
Show a list of locally installed container and VM images. This
enumerates all raw disk images and container directories and subvolumes
in /var/lib/machines/ (and other search paths, see below). Use *start*
(see above) to run a container off one of the listed images. Note that,
by default, containers whose name begins with a dot (".") are not shown.
To show these too, specify *--all*. Note that a special image ".host"
always implicitly exists and refers to the image the host itself is
booted from.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*image-status* [/NAME/...]

#+begin_quote
Show terse status information about one or more container or VM images.
This function is intended to generate human-readable output. Use
*show-image* (see below) to generate computer-parsable output instead.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*show-image* [/NAME/...]

#+begin_quote
Show properties of one or more registered virtual machine or container
images, or the manager itself. If no argument is specified, properties
of the manager will be shown. If a NAME is specified, properties of this
virtual machine or container image are shown. By default, empty
properties are suppressed. Use *--all* to show those too. To select
specific properties to show, use *--property=*. This command is intended
to be used whenever computer-parsable output is required. Use
*image-status* if you are looking for formatted human-readable output.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*edit* /NAME|FILE/

#+begin_quote
Edit the settings file of the specified machines. For the format of the
settings file, refer to *systemd.nspawn*(5). If an existing settings
file of the given machine cant be found, *edit* automatically create a
new settings file from scratch under /etc/systemd/nspawn/.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*cat* /NAME|FILE/

#+begin_quote
Show the settings file of the specified machines.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*clone* /NAME/ /NAME/

#+begin_quote
Clones a container or VM image. The arguments specify the name of the
image to clone and the name of the newly cloned image. Note that plain
directory container images are cloned into btrfs subvolume images with
this command, if the underlying file system supports this. Note that
cloning a container or VM image is optimized for file systems that
support copy-on-write, and might not be efficient on others, due to file
system limitations.

Note that this command leaves hostname, machine ID and all other
settings that could identify the instance unmodified. The original image
and the cloned copy will hence share these credentials, and it might be
necessary to manually change them in the copy.

If combined with the *--read-only* switch a read-only cloned image is
created.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*rename* /NAME/ /NAME/

#+begin_quote
Renames a container or VM image. The arguments specify the name of the
image to rename and the new name of the image.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*read-only* /NAME/ [/BOOL/]

#+begin_quote
Marks or (unmarks) a container or VM image read-only. Takes a VM or
container image name, followed by a boolean as arguments. If the boolean
is omitted, positive is implied, i.e. the image is marked read-only.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*remove* /NAME/...

#+begin_quote
Removes one or more container or VM images. The special image ".host",
which refers to the hosts own directory tree, may not be removed.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*set-limit* [/NAME/] /BYTES/

#+begin_quote
Sets the maximum size in bytes that a specific container or VM image, or
all images, may grow up to on disk (disk quota). Takes either one or two
parameters. The first, optional parameter refers to a container or VM
image name. If specified, the size limit of the specified image is
changed. If omitted, the overall size limit of the sum of all images
stored locally is changed. The final argument specifies the size limit
in bytes, possibly suffixed by the usual K, M, G, T units. If the size
limit shall be disabled, specify "-" as size.

Note that per-container size limits are only supported on btrfs file
systems.

Added in version 220.

#+end_quote

*clean*

#+begin_quote
Remove hidden VM or container images (or all). This command removes all
hidden machine images from /var/lib/machines/, i.e. those whose name
begins with a dot. Use *machinectl list-images --all* to see a list of
all machine images, including the hidden ones.

When combined with the *--all* switch removes all images, not just
hidden ones. This command effectively empties /var/lib/machines/.

Note that commands such as *importctl pull-tar* or *importctl pull-raw*
usually create hidden, read-only, unmodified machine images from the
downloaded image first, before cloning a writable working copy of it, in
order to avoid duplicate downloads in case of images that are reused
multiple times. Use *machinectl clean* to remove old, hidden images
created this way.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-p*, *--property=*

#+begin_quote
When showing machine or image properties, limit the output to certain
properties as specified by the argument. If not specified, all set
properties are shown. The argument should be a property name, such as
"Name". If specified more than once, all properties with the specified
names are shown.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*--value*

#+begin_quote
When printing properties with *show*, only print the value, and skip the
property name and "=".

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*-P*

#+begin_quote
Equivalent to *--value* *--property=*, i.e. shows the value of the
property without the property name or "=". Note that using *-P* once
will also affect all properties listed with *-p*/*--property=*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-a*, *--all*

#+begin_quote
When showing machine or image properties, show all properties regardless
of whether they are set or not.

When listing VM or container images, do not suppress images beginning in
a dot character (".").

When cleaning VM or container images, remove all images, not just hidden
ones.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--full*

#+begin_quote
Do not ellipsize process tree entries or table. This implies
*--max-addresses=full*.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*--kill-whom=*

#+begin_quote
When used with *kill*, choose which processes to kill. Must be one of
*leader*, or *all* to select whether to kill only the leader process of
the machine or all processes of the machine. If omitted, defaults to
*all*.

Added in version 206.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--signal=*

#+begin_quote
When used with *kill*, choose which signal to send to selected
processes. Must be one of the well-known signal specifiers such as
*SIGTERM*, *SIGINT* or *SIGSTOP*. If omitted, defaults to *SIGTERM*.

The special value "help" will list the known values and the program will
exit immediately, and the special value "list" will list known values
along with the numerical signal numbers and the program will exit
immediately.

#+end_quote

*--uid=*

#+begin_quote
When used with the *shell* command, chooses the user ID to open the
interactive shell session as. If the argument to the *shell* command
also specifies a user name, this option is ignored. If the name is not
specified in either way, "root" will be used by default. Note that this
switch is not supported for the *login* command (see below).

Added in version 225.

#+end_quote

*-E */NAME/*[=*/VALUE/*]*, *--setenv=*/NAME/*[=*/VALUE/*]*

#+begin_quote
When used with the *shell* command, sets an environment variable for the
executed shell. This option may be used more than once to set multiple
variables. When "=" and /VALUE/ are omitted, the value of the variable
with the same name in the program environment will be used.

Note that this option is not supported for the *login* command.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*--mkdir*

#+begin_quote
When used with *bind*, creates the destination file or directory before
applying the bind mount. Note that even though the name of this option
suggests that it is suitable only for directories, this option also
creates the destination file node to mount over if the object to mount
is not a directory, but a regular file, device node, socket or FIFO.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*--read-only*

#+begin_quote
When used with *bind*, creates a read-only bind mount.

When used with *clone* a read-only container or VM image is created.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--lines=*

#+begin_quote
When used with *status*, controls the number of journal lines to show,
counting from the most recent ones. Takes a positive integer argument.
Defaults to 10.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*-o*, *--output=*

#+begin_quote
When used with *status*, controls the formatting of the journal entries
that are shown. For the available choices, see *journalctl*(1). Defaults
to "short".

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*--runner=nspawn*|*vmspawn*

#+begin_quote
When operating on machines choose whether to use *systemd-nspawn*(1) or
*systemd-vmspawn*(1). By default *systemd-nspawn*(1) is used.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-V*

#+begin_quote
*-V* is a shorthand for *--runner=vmspawn*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--now*

#+begin_quote
When used with *enable* or *disable*, the containers will also be
started or powered off. The start or poweroff operation is only carried
out when the respective enable or disable operation has been successful.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--force*

#+begin_quote
Replace target file when copying files.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*--max-addresses=*

#+begin_quote
When used with the *list-machines* command, limits the number of IP
addresses shown for every machine. Defaults to 1. All addresses can be
requested with "all". If the limit is 0, the address column is not
shown. Otherwise, if the machine has more addresses than shown, "..."
follows the last address.

Added in version 232.

#+end_quote

*-q*, *--quiet*

#+begin_quote
Suppresses additional informational output while running.

Added in version 236.

#+end_quote

*-H*, *--host=*

#+begin_quote
Execute the operation remotely. Specify a hostname, or a username and
hostname separated by "@", to connect to. The hostname may optionally be
suffixed by a port ssh is listening on, separated by ":", and then a
container name, separated by "/", which connects directly to a specific
container on the specified host. This will use SSH to talk to the remote
machine manager instance. Container names may be enumerated with
*machinectl -H */HOST/. Put IPv6 addresses in brackets.

#+end_quote

*-M*, *--machine=*

#+begin_quote
Connect to *systemd-machined.service*(8) running in a local container,
to perform the specified operation within the container.

Added in version 235.

#+end_quote

*--no-pager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager.

#+end_quote

*--no-legend*

#+begin_quote
Do not print the legend, i.e. column headers and the footer with hints.

#+end_quote

*--no-ask-password*

#+begin_quote
Do not query the user for authentication for privileged operations.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* MACHINE AND IMAGE NAMES
The *machinectl* tool operates on machines and images whose names must
be chosen following strict rules. Machine names must be suitable for use
as hostnames following a conservative subset of DNS and UNIX/Linux
semantics. Specifically, they must consist of one or more non-empty
label strings, separated by dots. No leading or trailing dots are
allowed. No sequences of multiple dots are allowed. The label strings
may only consist of alphanumeric characters as well as the dash and
underscore. The maximum length of a machine name is 64 characters.

A special machine with the name ".host" refers to the running host
system itself. This is useful for execution operations or inspecting the
host system as well. Note that *machinectl list* will not show this
special machine unless the *--all* switch is specified.

Requirements on image names are less strict, however, they must be valid
UTF-8, must be suitable as file names (hence not be the single or double
dot, and not include a slash), and may not contain control characters.
Since many operations search for an image by the name of a requested
machine, it is recommended to name images in the same strict fashion as
machines.

A special image with the name ".host" refers to the image of the running
host system. It hence conceptually maps to the special ".host" machine
name described above. Note that *machinectl list-images* will not show
this special image either, unless *--all* is specified.

* FILES AND DIRECTORIES
Machine images are preferably stored in /var/lib/machines/, but are also
searched for in /usr/local/lib/machines/ and /usr/lib/machines/. For
compatibility reasons, the directory /var/lib/container/ is searched,
too. Note that images stored below /usr/ are always considered
read-only. It is possible to symlink machines images from other
directories into /var/lib/machines/ to make them available for control
with *machinectl*.

Note that some image operations are only supported, efficient or atomic
on btrfs file systems.

Disk images are understood by *systemd-nspawn*(1) and *machinectl* in
three formats:

#+begin_quote
·

A simple directory tree, containing the files and directories of the
container to boot.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Subvolumes (on btrfs file systems), which are similar to the simple
directories, described above. However, they have additional benefits,
such as efficient cloning and quota reporting.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

"Raw" disk images, i.e. binary images of disks with a GPT or MBR
partition table. Images of this type are regular files with the suffix
".raw".

#+end_quote

See *systemd-nspawn*(1) for more information on image formats, in
particular its *--directory=* and *--image=* options.

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Download an Ubuntu RAW image, set a root password in it,
start it as a service*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# importctl pull-raw -mN \
      https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/jammy/current/jammy-server-cloudimg-amd64-disk-kvm.img \
      jammy
# systemd-firstboot --image=/var/lib/machines/jammy.raw --prompt-root-password --force
# machinectl start jammy
# machinectl login jammy
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This downloads the specified .raw image and makes it available under the
local name "jammy". Then, a root password is set with
*systemd-firstboot*(1). Afterwards the machine is started as system
service. With the last command a login prompt into the container is
requested.

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* ENVIRONMENT
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/

#+begin_quote
The maximum log level of emitted messages (messages with a higher log
level, i.e. less important ones, will be suppressed). Takes a
comma-separated list of values. A value may be either one of (in order
of decreasing importance) *emerg*, *alert*, *crit*, *err*, *warning*,
*notice*, *info*, *debug*, or an integer in the range 0...7. See
*syslog*(3) for more information. Each value may optionally be prefixed
with one of *console*, *syslog*, *kmsg* or *journal* followed by a colon
to set the maximum log level for that specific log target (e.g.
*SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info* specifies to log at debug level
except when logging to the console which should be at info level). Note
that the global maximum log level takes priority over any per target
maximum log levels.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages written to the tty will be colored
according to priority.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display logs will
color messages based on the log level on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, console log messages will be prefixed with a
timestamp.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal or a file, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display
logs will attach timestamps based on the entry metadata on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line
number in the source code where the message originates.

Note that the log location is often attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TID/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with the current numerical
thread ID (TID).

Note that the this information is attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/

#+begin_quote
The destination for log messages. One of *console* (log to the attached
tty), *console-prefixed* (log to the attached tty but with prefixes
encoding the log level and "facility", see *syslog*(3), *kmsg* (log to
the kernel circular log buffer), *journal* (log to the journal),
*journal-or-kmsg* (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), *auto* (determine the appropriate log target automatically,
the default), *null* (disable log output).

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG/

#+begin_quote
Whether to ratelimit kmsg or not. Takes a boolean. Defaults to "true".
If disabled, systemd will not ratelimit messages written to kmsg.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGER/

#+begin_quote
Pager to use when *--no-pager* is not given; overrides /$PAGER/. If
neither /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ nor /$PAGER/ are set, a set of well-known pager
implementations are tried in turn, including *less*(1) and *more*(1),
until one is found. If no pager implementation is discovered no pager is
invoked. Setting this environment variable to an empty string or the
value "cat" is equivalent to passing *--no-pager*.

Note: if /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set, /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ (as well as
/$PAGER/) will be silently ignored.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESS/

#+begin_quote
Override the options passed to *less* (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular:

*K*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is
pressed. To allow *less* to handle Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the
pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of /$SYSTEMD_LESS/ does not include "K", and the pager that
is invoked is *less*, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and
needs to be handled by the pager.

#+end_quote

*X*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to not send termcap initialization and
deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by default to allow
command output to remain visible in the terminal even after the pager
exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

#+end_quote

Note that setting the regular /$LESS/ environment variable has no effect
for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

See *less*(1) for more discussion.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET/

#+begin_quote
Override the charset passed to *less* (by default "utf-8", if the
invoking terminal is determined to be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular /$LESSCHARSET/ environment variable has no
effect for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, the "secure" mode of the pager is
enabled; if false, disabled. If /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at
all, secure mode is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the
owner of the login session, see *geteuid*(2) and
*sd_pid_get_owner_uid*(3). In secure mode, *LESSSECURE=1* will be set
when invoking the pager, and the pager shall disable commands that open
or create new files or start new subprocesses. When
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at all, pagers which are not known to
implement secure mode will not be used. (Currently only *less*(1)
implements secure mode.)

Note: when commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for example
under *sudo*(8) or *pkexec*(1), care must be taken to ensure that
unintended interactive features are not enabled. "Secure" mode for the
pager may be enabled automatically as describe above. Setting
/SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0/ or not removing it from the inherited
environment allows the user to invoke arbitrary commands. Note that if
the /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ or /$PAGER/ variables are to be honoured,
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ must be set too. It might be reasonable to
completely disable the pager using *--no-pager* instead.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_COLORS/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, *systemd* and related utilities
will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following
special values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16
or 256 ANSI colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the
automatic decision based on /$TERM/ and what the console is connected
to.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_URLIFY/

#+begin_quote
The value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be
generated in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can
be specified to override the decision that *systemd* makes based on
/$TERM/ and other conditions.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd-machined.service*(8), *systemd-nspawn*(1),
*systemd.special*(7), *importctl*(1), *tar*(1), *xz*(1), *gzip*(1),
*bzip2*(1)
