#+TITLE: Manpages - more.1
* NAME
more - display the contents of a file in a terminal

* SYNOPSIS
*more* [options] /file/ ...

* DESCRIPTION
*more* is a filter for paging through text one screenful at a time. This
version is especially primitive. Users should realize that *less*(1)
provides *more*(1) emulation plus extensive enhancements.

* OPTIONS
Options are also taken from the environment variable *MORE* (make sure
to precede them with a dash (*-*)) but command-line options will
override those.

*-d*, *--silent*

#+begin_quote
Prompt with "[Press space to continue, q to quit.]", and display "[Press
h for instructions.]" instead of ringing the bell when an illegal key is
pressed.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--logical*

#+begin_quote
Do not pause after any line containing a *^L* (form feed).

#+end_quote

*-e*, *--exit-on-eof*

#+begin_quote
Exit on End-Of-File, enabled by default if POSIXLY_CORRECT environment
variable is not set or if not executed on terminal.

#+end_quote

*-f*, *--no-pause*

#+begin_quote
Count logical lines, rather than screen lines (i.e., long lines are not
folded).

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--print-over*

#+begin_quote
Do not scroll. Instead, clear the whole screen and then display the
text. Notice that this option is switched on automatically if the
executable is named *page*.

#+end_quote

*-c*, *--clean-print*

#+begin_quote
Do not scroll. Instead, paint each screen from the top, clearing the
remainder of each line as it is displayed.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--squeeze*

#+begin_quote
Squeeze multiple blank lines into one.

#+end_quote

*-u*, *--plain*

#+begin_quote
Suppress underlining. This option is silently ignored as backwards
compatibility.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--lines* /number/

#+begin_quote
Specify the /number/ of lines per screenful. The /number/ argument is a
positive decimal integer. The *--lines* option shall override any values
obtained from any other source, such as number of lines reported by
terminal.

#+end_quote

*-*/number/

#+begin_quote
A numeric option means the same as *--lines* option argument.

#+end_quote

*+*/number/

#+begin_quote
Start displaying each file at line /number/.

#+end_quote

*+*//string/

#+begin_quote
The /string/ to be searched in each file before starting to display it.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* COMMANDS
Interactive commands for *more* are based on *vi*(1). Some commands may
be preceded by a decimal number, called k in the descriptions below. In
the following descriptions, *^X* means *control-X*.

*h* or *?*

#+begin_quote
Help; display a summary of these commands. If you forget all other
commands, remember this one.

#+end_quote

*SPACE*

#+begin_quote
Display next k lines of text. Defaults to current screen size.

#+end_quote

*z*

#+begin_quote
Display next k lines of text. Defaults to current screen size. Argument
becomes new default.

#+end_quote

*RETURN*

#+begin_quote
Display next k lines of text. Defaults to 1. Argument becomes new
default.

#+end_quote

*d* or *^D*

#+begin_quote
Scroll k lines. Default is current scroll size, initially 11. Argument
becomes new default.

#+end_quote

*q* or *Q* or *INTERRUPT*

#+begin_quote
Exit.

#+end_quote

*s*

#+begin_quote
Skip forward k lines of text. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*f*

#+begin_quote
Skip forward k screenfuls of text. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*b* or *^B*

#+begin_quote
Skip backwards k screenfuls of text. Defaults to 1. Only works with
files, not pipes.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
Go to the place where the last search started.

#+end_quote

*=*

#+begin_quote
Display current line number.

#+end_quote

*/pattern*

#+begin_quote
Search for kth occurrence of regular expression. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*n*

#+begin_quote
Search for kth occurrence of last regular expression. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*!command* or *:!command*

#+begin_quote
Execute /command/ in a subshell.

#+end_quote

*v*

#+begin_quote
Start up an editor at current line. The editor is taken from the
environment variable *VISUAL* if defined, or *EDITOR* if *VISUAL* is not
defined, or defaults to *vi*(1) if neither *VISUAL* nor *EDITOR* is
defined.

#+end_quote

*^L*

#+begin_quote
Redraw screen.

#+end_quote

*:n*

#+begin_quote
Go to kth next file. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*:p*

#+begin_quote
Go to kth previous file. Defaults to 1.

#+end_quote

*:f*

#+begin_quote
Display current file name and line number.

#+end_quote

*.*

#+begin_quote
Repeat previous command.

#+end_quote

* ENVIRONMENT
The *more* command respects the following environment variables, if they
exist:

*MORE*

#+begin_quote
This variable may be set with favored options to *more*.

#+end_quote

*SHELL*

#+begin_quote
Current shell in use (normally set by the shell at login time).

#+end_quote

*TERM*

#+begin_quote
The terminal type used by *more* to get the terminal characteristics
necessary to manipulate the screen.

#+end_quote

*VISUAL*

#+begin_quote
The editor the user prefers. Invoked when command key /v/ is pressed.

#+end_quote

*EDITOR*

#+begin_quote
The editor of choice when *VISUAL* is not specified.

#+end_quote

*POSIXLY_CORRECT*

#+begin_quote
Disable exit-on-eof (see option *-e* for more details).

#+end_quote

* HISTORY
The *more* command appeared in 3.0BSD. This man page documents *more*
version 5.19 (Berkeley 6/29/88), which is currently in use in the Linux
community. Documentation was produced using several other versions of
the man page, and extensive inspection of the source code.

* AUTHORS
Eric Shienbrood, UC Berkeley.

Modified by Geoff Peck, UCB to add underlining, single spacing.

Modified by John Foderaro, UCB to add -c and MORE environment variable.

* SEE ALSO
*less*(1), *vi*(1)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *more* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
