#+TITLE: Manpages - nano.1
* NAME
nano - Nano's ANOther text editor, inspired by Pico

* SYNOPSIS
*nano* [/options/] [[*+*/line/[*,*/column/]] /file/]...

*nano* [*/options/*] [[*+*[*crCR*]{*/*|*?*}*/string/*] */file/*]...

* NOTICE
Since version 8.0, to be newcomer friendly, *^F* starts a forward
search, *^B* starts a backward search, *M-F* searches the next
occurrence forward, and *M-B* searches the next occurrence backward. If
you want those keystrokes to do what they did before version 8.0, add
the following lines at the end of your /nanorc/ file:

#+begin_quote
*bind ^F forward main*\\
*bind ^B back main*\\
*bind M-F formatter main*\\
*bind M-B linter main*

#+end_quote

* DESCRIPTION
*nano* is a small and friendly text editor. It copies the look and feel
of Pico, but is free software, and implements several features that Pico
lacks, such as: opening multiple files, scrolling per line, undo/redo,
syntax coloring, line numbering, and soft-wrapping overlong lines.

When giving a filename on the command line, the cursor can be put on a
specific line by adding the line number with a plus sign (*+*) before
the filename, and even in a specific column by adding it with a comma.
Negative numbers count from the end of the file or line.

The cursor can be put on the first or last occurrence of a specific
string by specifying that string after *+/* or *+?* before the filename.
The string can be made case sensitive and/or caused to be interpreted as
a regular expression by inserting *c* and/or *r* after the *+* sign.
These search modes can be explicitly disabled by using the uppercase
variant of those letters: *C* and/or *R*. When the string contains
spaces, it needs to be enclosed in quotes. To give an example: to open a
file at the first occurrence of the word "Foo", you would do:

#+begin_quote
*nano +c/Foo */file/

#+end_quote

As a special case: if instead of a filename a dash (*-*) is given,
*nano* will read data from standard input.

* EDITING
Entering text and moving around in a file is straightforward: typing the
letters and using the normal cursor movement keys. Commands are entered
by using the Control (^) and the Alt or Meta (M-) keys. Typing *^K*
deletes the current line and puts it in the cutbuffer. Consecutive *^K*s
put all deleted lines together in the cutbuffer. Any cursor movement or
executing any other command causes the next *^K* to overwrite the
cutbuffer. A *^U* pastes the current contents of the cutbuffer at the
current cursor position.

When a more precise piece of text needs to be cut or copied, you can
mark its start with *^6*, move the cursor to its end (the marked text is
highlighted), and then use *^K* to cut it, or *M-6* to copy it to the
cutbuffer. You can also save the marked text to a file with *^O*, or
spell check it with *^T^T*.

On some terminals, text can be selected also by holding down Shift while
using the arrow keys. Holding down the Ctrl or Alt key too increases the
stride. Any cursor movement without Shift being held cancels such a
selection.

Any valid Unicode code point can be inserted into the buffer by typing
*M-V* followed by the hexadecimal digits of the code point (concluded
with *<Space>* or *<Enter>* when it are fewer than six digits). A
literal control code (except *^J*) can be inserted by typing *M-V*
followed by the pertinent keystroke.

The two lines at the bottom of the screen show some important commands;
the built-in help (*^G*) lists all the available ones. The default key
bindings can be changed via a /nanorc/ file -- see *nanorc*(5).

* OPTIONS
- *-A*, *--smarthome* :: Make the Home key smarter. When Home is pressed
  anywhere but at the very beginning of non-whitespace characters on a
  line, the cursor jumps to that beginning (either forwards or
  backwards). If the cursor is already at that position, it jumps to the
  true beginning of the line.

- *-B*, *--backup* :: When saving a file, back up the previous version
  of it, using the current filename suffixed with a tilde (*~*).

- *-C /directory/*, *--backupdir=*/directory/ :: Make and keep not just
  one backup file, but make and keep a uniquely numbered one every time
  a file is saved -- when backups are enabled (*-B*). The uniquely
  numbered files are stored in the specified /directory/.

- *-D*, *--boldtext* :: For the interface, use bold instead of reverse
  video. This can be overridden for specific elements by setting the
  options *titlecolor*, *statuscolor*, *promptcolor*, *minicolor*,
  *keycolor*, *numbercolor*, and/or *selectedcolor* in your nanorc file.
  See *nanorc*(5).

- *-E*, *--tabstospaces* :: Convert each typed tab to spaces -- to the
  number of spaces that a tab at that position would take up. (Note:
  pasted tabs are not converted.)

- *-F*, *--multibuffer* :: Read a file into a new buffer by default.

- *-G*, *--locking* :: Use vim-style file locking when editing files.

- *-H*, *--historylog* :: Save the last hundred search strings and
  replacement strings and executed commands, so they can be easily
  reused in later sessions.

- *-I*, *--ignorercfiles* :: Don't look at the system's /nanorc/ nor at
  the user's /nanorc/.

- *-J /number/*, *--guidestripe=*/number/ :: Draw a vertical stripe at
  the given column, to help judge the width of the text. (The color of
  the stripe can be changed with *set stripecolor* in your /nanorc/
  file.)

- *-K*, *--rawsequences* :: Interpret escape sequences directly, instead
  of asking *ncurses* to translate them. (If you need this option to get
  some keys to work properly, it means that the *terminfo* terminal
  description that is used does not fully match the actual behavior of
  your terminal. This can happen when you ssh into a BSD machine, for
  example.) Using this option disables *nano*'s mouse support.

- *-L*, *--nonewlines* :: Don't automatically add a newline when a text
  does not end with one. (This can cause you to save non-POSIX text
  files.)

- *-M*, *--trimblanks* :: Snip trailing whitespace from the wrapped line
  when automatic hard-wrapping occurs or when text is justified.

- *-N*, *--noconvert* :: Disable automatic conversion of files from
  DOS/Mac format.

- *-O*, *--bookstyle* :: When justifying, treat any line that starts
  with whitespace as the beginning of a paragraph (unless auto-indenting
  is on).

- *-P*, *--positionlog* :: For the 200 most recent files, log the last
  position of the cursor, and place it at that position again upon
  reopening such a file.

- *-Q "/regex/*"**, *--quotestr="*/regex/*"""* :: Set the regular
  expression for matching the quoting part of a line. The default value
  is "*^([ \t]*([!#%:;>|}]|//))+*". (Note that *\t* stands for an actual
  Tab.) This makes it possible to rejustify blocks of quoted text when
  composing email, and to rewrap blocks of line comments when writing
  source code.

- *-R*, *--restricted* :: Restricted mode: don't read or write to any
  file not specified on the command line. This means: don't read or
  write history files; don't allow suspending; don't allow spell
  checking; don't allow a file to be appended to, prepended to, or saved
  under a different name if it already has one; and don't make backup
  files. Restricted mode can also be activated by invoking *nano* with
  any name beginning with 'r' (e.g. "rnano").

- *-S*, *--softwrap* :: Display over multiple screen rows lines that
  exceed the screen's width. (You can make this soft-wrapping occur at
  whitespace instead of rudely at the screen's edge, by using also
  *--atblanks*.)

- *-T /number/*, *--tabsize=*/number/ :: Set the size (width) of a tab
  to /number columns. The value of/ /number/ must be greater than 0. The
  default value is *8*.

- *-U*, *--quickblank* :: Make status-bar messages disappear after 1
  keystroke instead of after 20. Note that option *-c*
  (*--constantshow*) overrides this. When option *--minibar* or *--zero*
  is in effect, *--quickblank* makes a message disappear after 0.8
  seconds instead of after the default 1.5 seconds.

- *-V*, *--version* :: Show the current version number and exit.

- *-W*, *--wordbounds* :: Detect word boundaries differently by treating
  punctuation characters as part of a word.

- *-X "/characters/*"**, *--wordchars="*/characters/*"""* :: Specify
  which other characters (besides the normal alphanumeric ones) should
  be considered as part of a word. When using this option, you probably
  want to omit *-W* (*--wordbounds*).

- *-Y /name/*, *--syntax=*/name/ :: Specify the name of the syntax
  highlighting to use from among the ones defined in the /nanorc files./

- *-Z*, *--zap* :: Let an unmodified Backspace or Delete erase the
  marked region (instead of a single character, and without affecting
  the cutbuffer).

- *-a*, *--atblanks* :: When doing soft line wrapping, wrap lines at
  whitespace instead of always at the edge of the screen.

- *-b*, *--breaklonglines* :: Automatically hard-wrap the current line
  when it becomes overlong. (This option is the opposite of *-w*
  (*--nowrap*) -- the last one given takes effect.)

- *-c*, *--constantshow* :: Constantly show the cursor position on the
  status bar. Note that this overrides option *-U* (*--quickblank*).

- *-d*, *--rebinddelete* :: Interpret the Delete and Backspace keys
  differently so that both Backspace and Delete work properly. You
  should only use this option when on your system either Backspace acts
  like Delete or Delete acts like Backspace.

- *-e*, *--emptyline* :: Do not use the line below the title bar,
  leaving it entirely blank.

- *-f /file/*, *--rcfile=*/file/ :: Read only this /file/ for setting
  nano's options, instead of reading both the system-wide and the user's
  nanorc files.

- *-g*, *--showcursor* :: Make the cursor visible in the file browser
  (putting it on the highlighted item) and in the help viewer. Useful
  for braille users and people with poor vision.

- *-h*, *--help* :: Show a summary of the available command-line options
  and exit.

- *-i*, *--autoindent* :: Automatically indent a newly created line to
  the same number of tabs and/or spaces as the previous line (or as the
  next line if the previous line is the beginning of a paragraph).

- *-j*, *--jumpyscrolling* :: Scroll the buffer contents per half-screen
  instead of per line.

- *-k*, *--cutfromcursor* :: Make the 'Cut Text' command (normally *^K*)
  cut from the current cursor position to the end of the line, instead
  of cutting the entire line.

- *-l*, *--linenumbers* :: Display line numbers to the left of the text
  area. (Any line with an anchor additionally gets a mark in the
  margin.)

- *-m*, *--mouse* :: Enable mouse support, if available for your system.
  When enabled, mouse clicks can be used to place the cursor, set the
  mark (with a double click), and execute shortcuts. The mouse works in
  the X Window System, and on the console when gpm is running. Text can
  still be selected through dragging by holding down the Shift key.

- *-n*, *--noread* :: Treat any name given on the command line as a new
  file. This allows *nano* to write to named pipes: it starts with a
  blank buffer, and writes to the pipe when the user saves the "file".
  This way *nano* can be used as an editor in combination with for
  instance *gpg* without having to write sensitive data to disk first.

- *-o /directory/*, *--operatingdir=*/directory/ :: Set the operating
  directory. This makes *nano*/ set up something/ similar to a chroot.

- *-p*, *--preserve* :: Preserve the XOFF and XON sequences (*^S* and
  *^Q*) so that they are caught by the terminal (stopping and resuming
  the output). Note that option *-/* (*--modernbindings*) overrides
  this.

- *-q*, *--indicator* :: Display a "scrollbar" on the righthand side of
  the edit window. It shows the position of the viewport in the buffer
  and how much of the buffer is covered by the viewport.

- *-r /number/*, *--fill=*/number/ :: Set the target width for
  justifying and automatic hard-wrapping at this /number/ of columns. If
  the value is 0 or less, wrapping occurs at the width of the screen
  minus /number/ columns, allowing the wrap point to vary along with the
  width of the screen if the screen is resized. The default value is
  *-8*.

- *-s "/program/ [/argument /...]*"*, *--speller="*/program/ [/argument
  /...]*"** :: Use this command to perform spell checking and
  correcting, instead of using the built-in corrector that calls
  *hunspell*(1) or *spell*(1).

- *-t*, *--saveonexit* :: Save a changed buffer without prompting (when
  exiting with *^X*).

- *-u*, *--unix* :: Save a file by default in Unix format. This
  overrides nano's default behavior of saving a file in the format that
  it had. (This option has no effect when you also use *--noconvert*.)

- *-v*, *--view* :: Just view the file and disallow editing: read-only
  mode. This mode allows the user to open also other files for viewing,
  unless *--restricted* is given too.

- *-w*, *--nowrap* :: Do not automatically hard-wrap the current line
  when it becomes overlong. This is the default. (This option is the
  opposite of *-b* (*--breaklonglines*) -- the last one given takes
  effect.)

- *-x*, *--nohelp* :: Don't show the two help lines at the bottom of the
  screen.

- *-y*, *--afterends* :: Make Ctrl+Right and Ctrl+Delete stop at word
  ends instead of beginnings.

- *-z*, *--listsyntaxes* :: List the names of the available syntaxes and
  exit.

- *-!*, *--magic* :: When neither the file's name nor its first line
  give a clue, try using libmagic to determine the applicable syntax.

- *-@*, *--colonparsing* :: When a filename given on the command line
  ends in a colon plus digits and this filename does not exist, then
  snip the colon plus digits and understand the digits as a line number.
  If the trimmed filename does not exist either, then repeat the process
  and understand the obtained two numbers as line and column number. But
  if the doubly trimmed filename does not exist either, then forget the
  trimming and accept the original filename as is. To disable this colon
  parsing for some file, use *+1* or similar before the relevant
  filename.

- *-%*, *--stateflags* :: Use the top-right corner of the screen for
  showing some state flags: *I* when auto-indenting, *M* when the mark
  is on, *L* when hard-wrapping (breaking long lines), *R* when
  recording a macro, and *S* when soft-wrapping. When the buffer is
  modified, a star (***) is shown after the filename in the center of
  the title bar.

- *-_*, *--minibar* :: Suppress the title bar and instead show
  information about the current buffer at the bottom of the screen, in
  the space for the status bar. In this "mini bar" the filename is shown
  on the left, followed by an asterisk if the buffer has been modified.
  On the right are displayed the current line and column number, the
  code of the character under the cursor (in Unicode format: U+xxxx),
  the same flags as are shown by *--stateflags*, and a percentage that
  expresses how far the cursor is into the file (linewise). When a file
  is loaded or saved, and also when switching between buffers, the
  number of lines in the buffer is displayed after the filename. This
  number is cleared upon the next keystroke, or replaced with an [i/n]
  counter when multiple buffers are open. The line plus column numbers
  and the character code are displayed only when *--constantshow* is
  used, and can be toggled on and off with *M-C*. The state flags are
  displayed only when *--stateflags* is used.

- *-0*, *--zero* :: Hide all elements of the interface (title bar,
  status bar, and help lines) and use all rows of the terminal for
  showing the contents of the buffer. The status bar appears only when
  there is a significant message, and disappears after 1.5 seconds or
  upon the next keystroke. With *M-Z* the title bar plus status bar can
  be toggled. With *M-X* the help lines.

- *-/*, *--modernbindings* :: Use key bindings similar to the ones that
  most modern programs use: *^X* cuts, *^C* copies, *^V* pastes, *^Z*
  undoes, *^Y* redoes, *^F* searches forward, *^G* searches next, *^S*
  saves, *^O* opens a file, *^Q* quits, and (when the terminal permits)
  *^H* shows help. Furthermore, *^A* sets the mark, *^R* makes
  replacements, *^D* searches previous, *^P* shows the position, *^T*
  goes to a line, *^W* writes out a file, and *^E* executes a command.
  Note that this overrides option *-p* (*--preserve*).

* TOGGLES
Several of the above options can be switched on and off also while
*nano* is running. For example, *M-L* toggles the hard-wrapping of long
lines, *M-S* toggles soft-wrapping, *M-N* toggles line numbers, *M-M*
toggles the mouse, *M-I* auto-indentation, and *M-X* the help lines. See
at the end of the *^G* help text for a complete list.

The *M-X* toggle is special: it works in all menus except the help
viewer and the linter. All other toggles work in the main menu only.

* FILES
When *--rcfile* is given, *nano* reads just the specified file for
setting its options and syntaxes and key bindings. Without that option,
*nano* reads two configuration files: first the system's /nanorc/ (if it
exists), and then the user's /nanorc/ (if it exists), either /~/.nanorc/
or /$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/nano/nanorc/ or /~/.config/nano/nanorc/, whichever
is encountered first. See *nanorc*(5) for more information on the
possible contents of those files.

See //usr/share/nano// and //usr/share/nano/extra// for available
syntax-coloring definitions.

* NOTES
Suspension is enabled by default, reachable via *^T^Z*. (If you want a
plain *^Z* to suspend nano, add *bind ^Z suspend main* to your nanorc.)

At a Yes-No prompt, *^Y* can be used for "Yes", *^N* for "No", and *^A*
for "All". These unlisted bindings work in any locale.

When you want to copy marked text from *nano* to the system's clipboard,
see one of the examples in the *nanorc*(5) man page.

If no alternative spell checker command is specified on the command line
nor in one of the /nanorc/ files, *nano* checks the *SPELL* environment
variable for one.

In some cases *nano* tries to dump the buffer into an emergency file.
This happens mainly if *nano* receives a SIGHUP or SIGTERM or runs out
of memory. It writes the buffer into a file named /nano.save/ if the
buffer didn't have a name already, or adds a ".save" suffix to the
current filename. If an emergency file with that name already exists in
the current directory, it adds ".save" plus a number (e.g. ".save.1") to
the current filename in order to make it unique. In multibuffer mode,
*nano* writes all open buffers to their respective emergency files.

If you have any question about how to use *nano* in some specific
situation, you can ask on /help-nano@gnu.org/.

* BUGS
The recording and playback of keyboard macros works correctly only on a
terminal emulator, not on a Linux console (VT), because the latter does
not by default distinguish modified from unmodified arrow keys.

Please report any other bugs that you encounter via:\\
/https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=nano/.

When nano crashes, it saves any modified buffers to emergency .save
files. If you are able to reproduce the crash and you want to get a
backtrace, define the environment variable *NANO_NOCATCH*.

* HOMEPAGE
/https://nano-editor.org//

* SEE ALSO
*nanorc*(5)

//usr/share/doc/nano// (or equivalent on your system)
