#+TITLE: Manpages - networkctl.1
* NAME
networkctl - Query or modify the status of network links

* SYNOPSIS
*networkctl* [OPTIONS...] COMMAND [LINK...]

* DESCRIPTION
*networkctl* may be used to query or modify the state of the network
links as seen by *systemd-networkd*. Please refer to
*systemd-networkd.service*(8) for an introduction to the basic concepts,
functionality, and configuration syntax.

* COMMANDS
The following commands are understood:

*list* [/PATTERN.../]

#+begin_quote
Show a list of existing links and their status. If one or more
/PATTERN/s are specified, only links matching one of them are shown. If
no further arguments are specified shows all links, otherwise just the
specified links. Produces output similar to:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
IDX LINK         TYPE     OPERATIONAL SETUP
  1 lo           loopback carrier     unmanaged
  2 eth0         ether    routable    configured
  3 virbr0       ether    no-carrier  unmanaged
  4 virbr0-nic   ether    off         unmanaged

4 links listed.
#+end_example

#+end_quote

The operational status is one of the following:

missing

#+begin_quote
The device is missing.

Added in version 245.

#+end_quote

off

#+begin_quote
The device is powered down.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

no-carrier

#+begin_quote
The device is powered up, but does not yet have a carrier.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

dormant

#+begin_quote
The device has a carrier, but is not yet ready for normal traffic.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

degraded-carrier

#+begin_quote
One of the bonding or bridge slave network interfaces is in off,
no-carrier, or dormant state, and the master interface has no address.

Added in version 242.

#+end_quote

carrier

#+begin_quote
The link has carrier, or for bond or bridge master, all bonding or
bridge slave network interfaces are enslaved to the master.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

degraded

#+begin_quote
The link has carrier and addresses valid on the local link configured.
For bond or bridge master this means that not all slave network
interfaces have carrier but at least one does.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

enslaved

#+begin_quote
The link has carrier and is enslaved to bond or bridge master network
interface.

Added in version 242.

#+end_quote

routable

#+begin_quote
The link has carrier and routable address configured. For bond or bridge
master it is not necessary for all slave network interfaces to have
carrier, but at least one must.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

The setup status is one of the following:

pending

#+begin_quote
*systemd-udevd*(8) is still processing the link, we dont yet know if we
will manage it.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

initialized

#+begin_quote
*systemd-udevd*(8) has processed the link, but we dont yet know if we
will manage it.

Added in version 251.

#+end_quote

configuring

#+begin_quote
Configuration for the link is being retrieved or the link is being
configured.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

configured

#+begin_quote
Link has been configured successfully.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

unmanaged

#+begin_quote
*systemd-networkd* is not handling the link.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

failed

#+begin_quote
*systemd-networkd* failed to configure the link.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

linger

#+begin_quote
The link is gone, but has not yet been dropped by *systemd-networkd*.

Added in version 240.

#+end_quote

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*status* [/PATTERN.../]

#+begin_quote
Show information about the specified links: type, state, kernel module
driver, hardware and IP address, configured DNS servers, etc. If one or
more /PATTERN/s are specified, only links matching one of them are
shown.

When no links are specified, an overall network status is shown. Also
see the option *--all*.

Produces output similar to:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
‚óè        State: routable
  Online state: online
       Address: 10.193.76.5 on eth0
                192.168.122.1 on virbr0
                169.254.190.105 on eth0
                fe80::5054:aa:bbbb:cccc on eth0
       Gateway: 10.193.11.1 (CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.) on eth0
           DNS: 8.8.8.8
                8.8.4.4
#+end_example

#+end_quote

In the overall network status, the online state depends on the
individual online state of all required links. Managed links are
required for online by default. In this case, the online state is one of
the following:

unknown

#+begin_quote
All links have unknown online status (i.e. there are no required links).

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

offline

#+begin_quote
All required links are offline.

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

partial

#+begin_quote
Some, but not all, required links are online.

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

online

#+begin_quote
All required links are online.

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*lldp* [/PATTERN.../]

#+begin_quote
Show discovered LLDP (Link Layer Discovery Protocol) neighbors. If one
or more /PATTERN/s are specified only neighbors on those interfaces are
shown. Otherwise shows discovered neighbors on all interfaces. Note that
for this feature to work, /LLDP=/ must be turned on for the specific
interface, see *systemd.network*(5) for details.

Produces output similar to:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
LINK    SYSTEM-NAME SYSTEM-DESCRIPTION CHASSIS-ID        PORT-ID PORT-DESCRIPTION CAPS
enp0s25 GS1900      -                  00:e0:4c:00:00:00 2       Port #2           ..b........

Capability Flags:
o - Other; p - Repeater;  b - Bridge; w - WLAN Access Point; r - Router;
t - Telephone; d - DOCSIS cable device; a - Station; c - Customer VLAN;
s - Service VLAN, m - Two-port MAC Relay (TPMR)

1 neighbor(s) listed.
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*label*

#+begin_quote
Show numerical address labels that can be used for address selection.
This is the same information that *ip-addrlabel*(8) shows. See *RFC
3484*[1] for a discussion of address labels.

Produces output similar to:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
Prefix/Prefixlen                          Label
        ::/0                                  1
    fc00::/7                                  5
    fec0::/10                                11
    2002::/16                                 2
    3ffe::/16                                12
 2001:10::/28                                 7
    2001::/32                                 6
::ffff:0.0.0.0/96                             4
        ::/96                                 3
       ::1/128                                0
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Added in version 234.

#+end_quote

*delete* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Deletes virtual netdevs. Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 243.

#+end_quote

*up* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Bring devices up. Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 246.

#+end_quote

*down* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Bring devices down. Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 246.

#+end_quote

*renew* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Renew dynamic configurations e.g. addresses received from DHCP server.
Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*forcerenew* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Send a FORCERENEW message to all connected clients, triggering DHCP
reconfiguration. Takes interface name or index number.

Added in version 246.

#+end_quote

*reconfigure* /DEVICE.../

#+begin_quote
Reconfigure network interfaces. Takes interface name or index number.
Note that this does not reload .netdev or .network corresponding to the
specified interface. So, if you edit config files, it is necessary to
call *networkctl reload* first to apply new settings.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*reload*

#+begin_quote
Reload .netdev and .network files. If a new .netdev file is found, then
the corresponding netdev is created. Note that even if an existing
.netdev is modified or removed, *systemd-networkd* does not update or
remove the netdev. If a new, modified or removed .network file is found,
then all interfaces which match the file are reconfigured.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*edit* /FILE/|/@DEVICE/...

#+begin_quote
Edit network configuration files, which include .network, .netdev, and
.link files. If no network config file matching the given name is found,
a new one will be created under /etc/ or /run/, depending on whether
*--runtime* is specified. Specially, if the name is prefixed by "@", it
will be treated as a network interface, and editing will be performed on
the network config files associated with it. Additionally, the interface
name can be suffixed with ":network" (default) or ":link", in order to
choose the type of network config to operate on.

If *--drop-in=* is specified, edit the drop-in file instead of the main
configuration file. Unless *--no-reload* is specified,
*systemd-networkd* will be reloaded after the edit of the .network or
.netdev files finishes. The same applies for .link files and
*systemd-udevd*(8). Note that the changed link settings are not
automatically applied after reloading. To achieve that, trigger uevents
for the corresponding interface. Refer to *systemd.link*(5) for more
information.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*cat* [/FILE/|/@DEVICE/...]

#+begin_quote
Show network configuration files. This command honors the "@" prefix in
the same way as *edit*. When no argument is specified,
*networkd.conf*(5) and its drop-in files will be shown.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*mask* /FILE/...

#+begin_quote
Mask network configuration files, which include .network, .netdev, and
.link files. A symlink of the given name will be created under /etc/ or
/run/, depending on whether *--runtime* is specified, that points to
/dev/null. If a non-empty config file with the specified name exists
under the target directory or a directory with higher priority (e.g.
*--runtime* is used while an existing config resides in /etc/), the
operation is aborted.

This command honors *--no-reload* in the same way as *edit*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*unmask* /FILE/...

#+begin_quote
Unmask network configuration files, i.e. reverting the effect of *mask*.
Note that this command operates regardless of the scope of the
directory, i.e. *--runtime* is of no effect.

This command honors *--no-reload* in the same way as *edit* and *mask*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*persistent-storage* /BOOL/

#+begin_quote
Notify systemd-networkd.service that the persistent storage for the
service is ready. This is called by
systemd-networkd-persistent-storage.service. Usually, this command
should not be called manually by users or administrators.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-a* *--all*

#+begin_quote
Show all links with *status*.

Added in version 219.

#+end_quote

*-s* *--stats*

#+begin_quote
Show link statistics with *status*.

Added in version 243.

#+end_quote

*-l*, *--full*

#+begin_quote
Do not ellipsize the output.

Added in version 245.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--lines=*

#+begin_quote
When used with *status*, controls the number of journal lines to show,
counting from the most recent ones. Takes a positive integer argument.
Defaults to 10.

Added in version 245.

#+end_quote

*--drop-in=*/NAME/

#+begin_quote
When used with *edit*, edit the drop-in file /NAME/ instead of the main
configuration file.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--no-reload*

#+begin_quote
When used with *edit*, *mask*, or *unmask*,
*systemd-networkd.service*(8) or *systemd-udevd.service*(8) will not be
reloaded after the operation finishes.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--runtime*

#+begin_quote
When used with *edit* or *mask*, operate on the file under /run/ instead
of /etc/.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--json=*/MODE/

#+begin_quote
Shows output formatted as JSON. Expects one of "short" (for the shortest
possible output without any redundant whitespace or line breaks),
"pretty" (for a pretty version of the same, with indentation and line
breaks) or "off" (to turn off JSON output, the default).

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

*--no-legend*

#+begin_quote
Do not print the legend, i.e. column headers and the footer with hints.

#+end_quote

*--no-pager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* SEE ALSO
*systemd-networkd.service*(8), *systemd.network*(5),
*systemd.netdev*(5), *ip*(8)

* NOTES
-  1. :: RFC 3484

  https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3484
