#+TITLE: Manpages - nm-online.1
* NAME
nm-online - ask NetworkManager whether the network is connected

* SYNOPSIS
*nm-online* [/OPTIONS/...]

* DESCRIPTION
*nm-online* is a utility to find out whether we are online. It is done
by asking NetworkManager about its status. When run, *nm-online* waits
until NetworkManager reports an active connection, or specified timeout
expires. On exit, the returned status code should be checked (see the
return codes below).

This tool is not very useful to call directly. It is however used by
NetworkManager-wait-online.service with --wait-for-startup argument (see
*NetworkManager-wait-online.service*(8)).

By default, connections have the ipv4.may-fail and ipv6.may-fail
properties set to yes; this means that NetworkManager waits for one of
the two address families to complete configuration before considering
the connection activated. If you need a specific address family
configured before network-online.target is reached, set the
corresponding may-fail property to no.

* OPTIONS
*-h* | *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print help information.

#+end_quote

*-q* | *--quiet*

#+begin_quote
Dont print anything.

#+end_quote

*-s* | *--wait-for-startup*

#+begin_quote
Wait for NetworkManager startup to complete, rather than waiting for
network connectivity specifically. Startup is considered complete once
NetworkManager has activated (or attempted to activate) every
auto-activate connection which is available given the current network
state. This corresponds to the moment when NetworkManager logs "startup
complete". This mode is generally only useful at boot time. After
startup has completed, *nm-online -s* will just return immediately,
regardless of the current network state.

There are various ways to affect when startup complete is reached. For
details see *NetworkManager-wait-online.service*(8).

#+end_quote

*-t* | *--timeout* /seconds/

#+begin_quote
Time to wait for a connection, in seconds. If the option is not
provided, the environment variable NM_ONLINE_TIMEOUT is honored. The
default timeout is 30 seconds.

#+end_quote

*-x* | *--exit*

#+begin_quote
Exit immediately if NetworkManager is not running or connecting.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
*nm-online* exits with status 0 if it succeeds, a value greater than 0
is returned if an error occurs.

*0*

#+begin_quote
Success already online or connection established within given timeout.

#+end_quote

*1*

#+begin_quote
Offline or not online within given timeout.

#+end_quote

*2*

#+begin_quote
Unknown or unspecified error.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*nmcli*(1), *NetworkManager*(8),
*NetworkManager-wait-online.service*(8).
