#+TITLE: Manpages - prlimit.1
* NAME
prlimit - get and set process resource limits

* SYNOPSIS
*prlimit* [options] [*--resource*[=/limits/]] [*--pid* /PID/]

*prlimit* [options] [*--resource*[=/limits/]] /command/ [/argument/...]

* DESCRIPTION
Given a process ID and one or more resources, *prlimit* tries to
retrieve and/or modify the limits.

When /command/ is given, *prlimit* will run this command with the given
arguments.

The /limits/ parameter is composed of a soft and a hard value, separated
by a colon (:), in order to modify the existing values. If no /limits/
are given, *prlimit* will display the current values. If one of the
values is not given, then the existing one will be used. To specify the
unlimited or infinity limit (*RLIM_INFINITY*), the -1 or unlimited
string can be passed.

Because of the nature of limits, the soft limit must be lower or equal
to the high limit (also called the ceiling). To see all available
resource limits, refer to the *RESOURCE OPTIONS* section.

#+begin_quote
路

/soft/:_hard_ Specify both limits.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

/soft/: Specify only the soft limit.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

:/hard/ Specify only the hard limit.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

/value/ Specify both limits to the same value.

#+end_quote

* GENERAL OPTIONS
*--noheadings*

#+begin_quote
Do not print a header line.

#+end_quote

*-o, --output* /list/

#+begin_quote
Define the output columns to use. If no output arrangement is specified,
then a default set is used. Use *--help* to get a list of all supported
columns.

#+end_quote

*-p, --pid*

#+begin_quote
Specify the process id; if none is given, the running process will be
used.

#+end_quote

*--raw*

#+begin_quote
Use the raw output format.

#+end_quote

*--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Verbose mode.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* RESOURCE OPTIONS
*-c, --core*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum size of a core file.

#+end_quote

*-d, --data*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum data size.

#+end_quote

*-e, --nice*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum nice priority allowed to raise.

#+end_quote

*-f, --fsize*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum file size.

#+end_quote

*-i, --sigpending*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum number of pending signals.

#+end_quote

*-l, --memlock*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum locked-in-memory address space.

#+end_quote

*-m, --rss*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum Resident Set Size (RSS).

#+end_quote

*-n, --nofile*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum number of open files.

#+end_quote

*-q, --msgqueue*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.

#+end_quote

*-r, --rtprio*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum real-time priority.

#+end_quote

*-s, --stack*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum size of the stack.

#+end_quote

*-t, --cpu*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
CPU time, in seconds.

#+end_quote

*-u, --nproc*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum number of processes.

#+end_quote

*-v, --as*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Address space limit.

#+end_quote

*-x, --locks*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Maximum number of file locks held.

#+end_quote

*-y, --rttime*[=/limits/]

#+begin_quote
Timeout for real-time tasks.

#+end_quote

* NOTES
The *prlimit*(2) system call is supported since Linux 2.6.36, older
kernels will break this program.

* EXAMPLES
*prlimit --pid 13134*

#+begin_quote
Display limit values for all current resources.

#+end_quote

*prlimit --pid 13134 --rss --nofile=1024:4095*

#+begin_quote
Display the limits of the RSS, and set the soft and hard limits for the
number of open files to 1024 and 4095, respectively.

#+end_quote

*prlimit --pid 13134 --nproc=512:*

#+begin_quote
Modify only the soft limit for the number of processes.

#+end_quote

*prlimit --pid $$ --nproc=unlimited*

#+begin_quote
Set for the current process both the soft and ceiling values for the
number of processes to unlimited.

#+end_quote

*prlimit --cpu=10 sort -u hugefile*

#+begin_quote
Set both the soft and hard CPU time limit to ten seconds and run
*sort*(1).

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
- In memory of Dennis M. Ritchie.

* SEE ALSO
*ulimit*(1p), *prlimit*(2)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *prlimit* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
