#+TITLE: Manpages - pw-top.1
* NAME
pw-top - The PipeWire process viewer

* SYNOPSIS
*pw-top* [/options/]

* DESCRIPTION
The /pw-top/ program provides a dynamic real-time view of the pipewire
node and device statistics.

A hierarchical view is shown of Driver nodes and follower nodes. The
Driver nodes are actively using a timer to schedule dataflow in the
followers. The followers of a driver node as shown below their driver
with a + sign in a tree-like representation.

The columns presented are as follows:

*S*

#+begin_quote
Node status.

- E = ERROR

- C = CREATING

- S = SUSPENDED

- I = IDLE

- R = RUNNING

- t = RUNNING + transport starting

- T = RUNNING + transport running

#+end_quote

*ID*

#+begin_quote
The ID of the pipewire node/device, as found in /pw-dump/ and /pw-cli/

#+end_quote

*QUANT*

#+begin_quote
The current quantum (for drivers) and the suggested quantum for follower
nodes.

The quantum by itself needs to be divided by the RATE column to
calculate the duration of a scheduling period in fractions of a second.

For a QUANT of 1024 and a RATE of 48000, the duration of one period in
the graph is 1024/48000 or 21.3 milliseconds.

Follower nodes can have a 0 QUANT field, which means that the node does
not have a suggestion for the quantum and thus uses what the driver
selected.

The driver will use the lowest quantum of any of the followers. If none
of the followers select a quantum, the default quantum in the pipewire
configuration file will be used.

The QUANT on the drivers usually translates directly into the number of
audio samples processed per processing cycle of the graph.

See also
https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pipewire/pipewire/-/wikis/FAQ#pipewire-buffering-explained

#+end_quote

*RATE*

#+begin_quote
The current rate (for drivers) and the suggested rate for follower
nodes.

This is the rate at which the /graph/ processes data and needs to be
combined with the QUANT value to derive the duration of a processing
cycle in the graph.

Some nodes can have a 0 RATE, which means that they don\'t have any rate
suggestion for the graph. Nodes that suggest a rate can make the graph
switch rates if the graph is otherwise idle and the new rate is allowed
as a possible graph rate (see the pipewire configuration file).

The RATE on (audio) driver nodes usually also translates directly to the
samplerate used by the device. Although some devices might not be able
to operate at the given samplerate, in which case resampling will need
to be done. The negotiated samplerate with the device and stream can be
found in the FORMAT column.

#+end_quote

*WAIT*

#+begin_quote
The waiting time of a node is the elapsed time between when the node is
ready to start processing and when it actually started processing.

For Driver nodes, this is the time between when the node wakes up to
start processing the graph and when the driver (and thus also the graph)
completes a cycle. The WAIT time for driver is thus the elapsed time
processing the graph.

For follower nodes, it is the time spent between being woken up (when
all dependencies of the node are satisfied) and when processing starts.
The WAIT time for follower nodes is thus mostly caused by context
switching.

A value of --- means that the node was not signaled. A value of +++
means that the node was signaled but not awake.

#+end_quote

*BUSY*

#+begin_quote
The processing time is started when the node starts processing until it
completes and wakes up the next nodes in the graph.

A value of --- means that the node was not started. A value of +++ means
that the node was started but did not complete.

#+end_quote

*W/Q*

#+begin_quote
Ratio of WAIT / QUANT.

The W/Q time of the driver node is a good measure of the graph load. The
running averages of the driver W/Q ratios are used as the DSP load in
other (JACK) tools.

Values of --- and +++ are copied from the WAIT column.

#+end_quote

*B/Q*

#+begin_quote
Ratio of BUSY / QUANT

This is a good measure of the load of a particular driver or follower
node.

Values of --- and +++ are copied from the BUSY column.

#+end_quote

*ERR*

#+begin_quote
Total of Xruns and Errors

Xruns for drivers are when the graph did not complete a cycle. This can
be because a node in the graph also has an Xrun. It can also be caused
when scheduling delays cause a deadline to be missed, causing a hardware
Xrun.

Xruns for followers are incremented when the node started processing but
did not complete before the end of the graph cycle deadline.

#+end_quote

*FORMAT*

#+begin_quote
The format used by the driver node or the stream. This is the hardware
format negotiated with the device or stream.

If the stream of driver has a different rate than the graph, resampling
will be done.

For raw audio formats, the layout is <sampleformat> <channels>
<samplerate>.

For IEC958 passthrough audio formats, the layout is IEC958 <codec>
<samplerate>.

For DSD formats, the layout is <dsd-rate> <channels>.

For Video formats, the layout is <pixelformat> <width>x<height>.

#+end_quote

*NAME*

#+begin_quote
Name assigned to the device/node, as found in /pw-dump/ node.name

Names are prefixed by /+/ when they are linked to a driver (entry above
with no +)

#+end_quote

* OPTIONS
*-h | --help*

#+begin_quote
Show help.

#+end_quote

*-b | --batch-mode*

#+begin_quote
Run in non-interactive batch mode, similar to top\'s batch mode.

#+end_quote

*-n | --iterations=NUMBER*

#+begin_quote
Exit after NUMBER of batch iterations. Only used in batch mode.

#+end_quote

*-r | --remote=NAME*

#+begin_quote
The name the /remote/ instance to monitor. If left unspecified, a
connection is made to the default PipeWire instance.

#+end_quote

*-V | --version*

#+begin_quote
Show version information.

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
The PipeWire Developers
<https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pipewire/pipewire/issues>; PipeWire is
available from <https://pipewire.org>

* SEE ALSO
*pipewire(1)*, *pw-dump(1)*, *pw-cli(1)*, *pw-profiler(1)*
