#+TITLE: Manpages - run0.1
* NAME
run0 - Elevate privileges

* SYNOPSIS
*run0* [OPTIONS...] [COMMAND...]

* DESCRIPTION
*run0* may be used to temporarily and interactively acquire elevated or
different privileges. It serves a similar purpose as *sudo*(8), but
operates differently in a couple of key areas:

#+begin_quote
路

No execution or security context credentials are inherited from the
caller into the invoked commands, as they are invoked from a fresh,
isolated service forked off by the service manager.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

Authentication takes place via *polkit*[1], thus isolating the
authentication prompt from the terminal (if possible).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

An independent pseudo-tty is allocated for the invoked command,
detaching its lifecycle and isolating it for security.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
路

No SetUID/SetGID file access bit functionality is used for the
implementation.

#+end_quote

Altogether this should provide a safer and more robust alternative to
the *sudo* mechanism, in particular in OS environments where
SetUID/SetGID support is not available (for example by setting the
/NoNewPrivileges=/ variable in *systemd-system.conf*(5)).

Any session invoked via *run0* will run through the "systemd-run0" PAM
stack.

Note that *run0* is implemented as an alternative multi-call invocation
of *systemd-run*(1).

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*--no-ask-password*

#+begin_quote
Do not query the user for authentication for privileged operations.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--unit=*

#+begin_quote
Use this unit name instead of an automatically generated one.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--property=*

#+begin_quote
Sets a property on the service unit that is created. This option takes
an assignment in the same format as *systemctl*(1)s *set-property*
command.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--description=*

#+begin_quote
Provide a description for the service unit that is invoked. If not
specified, the command itself will be used as a description. See
/Description=/ in *systemd.unit*(5).

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--slice=*

#+begin_quote
Make the new .service unit part of the specified slice, instead of
user.slice.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--slice-inherit*

#+begin_quote
Make the new .service unit part of the slice the *run0* itself has been
invoked in. This option may be combined with *--slice=*, in which case
the slice specified via *--slice=* is placed within the slice the *run0*
command is invoked in.

Example: consider *run0* being invoked in the slice foo.slice, and the
*--slice=* argument is bar. The unit will then be placed under
foo-bar.slice.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--user=*, *-u*, *--group=*, *-g*

#+begin_quote
Switches to the specified user/group instead of root.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--nice=*

#+begin_quote
Runs the invoked session with the specified nice level.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--chdir=*, *-D*

#+begin_quote
Runs the invoked session with the specified working directory. If not
specified defaults to the clients current working directory if switching
to the root user, or the target users home directory otherwise.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--setenv=*/NAME/*[=*/VALUE/*]*

#+begin_quote
Runs the invoked session with the specified environment variable set.
This parameter may be used more than once to set multiple variables.
When "=" and /VALUE/ are omitted, the value of the variable with the
same name in the invoking environment will be used.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--background=*/COLOR/

#+begin_quote
Change the terminal background color to the specified ANSI color as long
as the session lasts. If not specified, the background will be tinted in
a reddish tone when operating as root, and in a yellowish tone when
operating under another UID, as reminder of the changed privileges. The
color specified should be an ANSI X3.64 SGR background color, i.e.
strings such as "40", "41", ..., "47", "48;2;...", "48;5;...". See *ANSI
Escape Code (Wikipedia)*[2] for details. Set to an empty string to
disable.

Example: "--background=44" for a blue background.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--machine=*

#+begin_quote
Execute operation on a local container. Specify a container name to
connect to.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

All command line arguments after the first non-option argument become
part of the command line of the launched process. If no command line is
specified an interactive shell is invoked. The shell to invoke may be
controlled via *--setenv=SHELL=...* and currently defaults to the
/originating users/ shell (i.e. not the target users!) if operating
locally, or /bin/sh when operating with *--machine=*.

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned. If *run0* failed to start the session or the
specified command fails, a non-zero return value will be returned.

* ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
As with *systemd-run*, the session will inherit the system environment
from the service manager. In addition, the following environment
variables will be set:

/$TERM/

#+begin_quote
Copied from the /$TERM/ of the caller. Can be overridden with
*--setenv=*

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

/$SUDO_USER/

#+begin_quote
Set to the username of the originating user.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

/$SUDO_UID/

#+begin_quote
Set to the numeric UNIX user id of the originating user.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

/$SUDO_GID/

#+begin_quote
Set to the primary numeric UNIX group id of the originating session.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd-run*(1), *sudo*(8), *machinectl*(1)

* NOTES
-  1. :: polkit

  https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/polkit

-  2. :: ANSI Escape Code (Wikipedia)

  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#SGR_(Select_Graphic_Rendition)_parameters
