#+TITLE: Manpages - scdaemon.1
* NAME
*scdaemon* - Smartcard daemon for the GnuPG system

* SYNOPSIS
*scdaemon* [*--homedir* /dir/] [*--options* /file/] [/options/]
*--server*\\
*scdaemon* [*--homedir* /dir/] [*--options* /file/] [/options/]
*--daemon* [/command_line/]

* DESCRIPTION
The *scdaemon* is a daemon to manage smartcards. It is usually invoked
by *gpg-agent* and in general not used directly.

* COMMANDS
Commands are not distinguished from options except for the fact that
only one command is allowed.

- *--version* :: Print the program version and licensing information.
  Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

- *--help, -h* :: Print a usage message summarizing the most useful
  command-line options. Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

- *--dump-options* :: Print a list of all available options and
  commands. Note that you cannot abbreviate this command.

- *--server* :: Run in server mode and wait for commands on the *stdin*.
  The default mode is to create a socket and listen for commands there.

- *--multi-server* :: Run in server mode and wait for commands on the
  *stdin* as well as on an additional Unix Domain socket. The server
  command *GETINFO* may be used to get the name of that extra socket.

- *--daemon* :: Run the program in the background. This option is
  required to prevent it from being accidentally running in the
  background.

* OPTIONS
- *--options /file/* :: Reads configuration from /file/ instead of from
  the default per-user configuration file. The default configuration
  file is named ‘/scdaemon.conf/' and expected in the ‘/.gnupg/'
  directory directly below the home directory of the user.

- *--homedir /dir/* :: Set the name of the home directory to /dir/. If
  this option is not used, the home directory defaults to ‘/~/.gnupg/'.
  It is only recognized when given on the command line. It also
  overrides any home directory stated through the environment variable
  ‘/GNUPGHOME/' or (on Windows systems) by means of the Registry entry
  /HKCU\Software\GNU\GnuPG:HomeDir/.

  On Windows systems it is possible to install GnuPG as a portable
  application. In this case only this command line option is considered,
  all other ways to set a home directory are ignored.

- *-v* :: - *--verbose* :: Outputs additional information while running.
    You can increase the verbosity by giving several verbose commands to
    *gpgsm*, such as ‘-vv'.

- *--debug-level /level/* :: Select the debug level for investigating
  problems. /level/ may be a numeric value or a keyword:

#+begin_quote
- *none* :: No debugging at all. A value of less than 1 may be used
  instead of the keyword.

- *basic* :: Some basic debug messages. A value between 1 and 2 may be
  used instead of the keyword.

- *advanced* :: More verbose debug messages. A value between 3 and 5 may
  be used instead of the keyword.

- *expert* :: Even more detailed messages. A value between 6 and 8 may
  be used instead of the keyword.

- *guru* :: All of the debug messages you can get. A value greater than
  8 may be used instead of the keyword. The creation of hash tracing
  files is only enabled if the keyword is used.

#+end_quote

How these messages are mapped to the actual debugging flags is not
specified and may change with newer releases of this program. They are
however carefully selected to best aid in debugging.

#+begin_quote
*All debugging options are subject to change and thus should not be
used* by any application program. As the name says, they are only used
as helpers to debug problems.

#+end_quote

- *--debug /flags/* :: Set debug flags. All flags are or-ed and /flags/
  may be given in C syntax (e.g. 0x0042) or as a comma separated list of
  flag names. To get a list of all supported flags the single word
  "help" can be used. This option is only useful for debugging and the
  behavior may change at any time without notice.

- *--debug-all* :: Same as *--debug=0xffffffff*

- *--debug-wait /n/* :: When running in server mode, wait /n/ seconds
  before entering the actual processing loop and print the pid. This
  gives time to attach a debugger.

- *--debug-ccid-driver* :: Enable debug output from the included CCID
  driver for smartcards. Using this option twice will also enable some
  tracing of the T=1 protocol. Note that this option may reveal
  sensitive data.

- *--debug-disable-ticker* :: This option disables all ticker functions
  like checking for card insertions.

- *--debug-allow-core-dump* :: For security reasons we won't create a
  core dump when the process aborts. For debugging purposes it is
  sometimes better to allow core dump. This option enables it and also
  changes the working directory to ‘//tmp/' when running in *--server*
  mode.

- *--debug-log-tid* :: This option appends a thread ID to the PID in the
  log output.

- *--debug-assuan-log-cats /cats/* :: Changes the active Libassuan
  logging categories to /cats/. The value for /cats/ is an unsigned
  integer given in usual C-Syntax. A value of 0 switches to a default
  category. If this option is not used the categories are taken from the
  environment variable *ASSUAN_DEBUG*. Note that this option has only an
  effect if the Assuan debug flag has also been with the option
  *--debug*. For a list of categories see the Libassuan manual.

- *--no-detach* :: Don't detach the process from the console. This is
  mainly useful for debugging.

- *--listen-backlog /n/* :: Set the size of the queue for pending
  connections. The default is 64. This option has an effect only if
  *--multi-server* is also used.

- *--log-file /file/* :: Append all logging output to /file/. This is
  very helpful in seeing what the agent actually does. Use ‘/socket:///'
  to log to socket.

- *--pcsc-shared* :: Use shared mode to access the card via PC/SC. This
  is a somewhat dangerous option because Scdaemon assumes exclusive
  access to the card and for example caches certain information from the
  card. Use this option only if you know what you are doing.

- *--pcsc-driver /library/* :: Use /library/ to access the smartcard
  reader. The current default on Unix is ‘/libpcsclite.so/' and on
  Windows ‘/winscard.dll/'. Instead of using this option you might also
  want to install a symbolic link to the default file name (e.g. from
  ‘/libpcsclite.so.1/'). A Unicode file name may not be used on Windows.

- *--disable-ccid* :: The integrated CCID driver for CCID compliant
  devices can be available when libusb was detected at build time, and
  it is used to access the smartcard reader. If access via PC/SC driver
  is needed, please configure this option to disable CCID driver support
  (if any). In GnuPG 2.2, there was a fallback mechanism from CCID
  driver to PC/SC driver. The fallback mechanism worked, because
  scdaemon in GnuPG 2.2 only supported a single token/reader. To support
  of multiple tokens/readers at the same time, fallback mechanism was
  removed.

- *--reader-port /number_or_string/* :: This option may be used to
  specify the port of the card terminal. A value of 0 refers to the
  first serial device; add 32768 to access USB devices. The default is
  32768 (first USB device). PC/SC or CCID readers might need a string
  here; run the program in verbose mode to get a list of available
  readers. The default is then the first reader found.

  To get a list of available CCID readers you may use this command:

  #+begin_example
    echo scd getinfo reader_list \
      | gpg-connect-agent --decode | awk '/^D/ {print $2}'
  #+end_example

- *--card-timeout /n/* :: This option is deprecated. In GnuPG 2.0, it
  used to be used for DISCONNECT command to control timing issue. Since
  DISCONNECT command works synchronously, it has no effect.

- *--enable-pinpad-varlen* :: Please specify this option when the card
  reader supports variable length input for pinpad (default is no). For
  known readers (listed in ccid-driver.c and apdu.c), this option is not
  needed. Note that if your card reader doesn't supports variable length
  input but you want to use it, you need to specify your pinpad request
  on your card.

- *--disable-pinpad* :: Even if a card reader features a pinpad, do not
  try to use it.

- *--deny-admin* :: This option disables the use of admin class commands
  for card applications where this is supported. Currently we support it
  for the OpenPGP card. This option is useful to inhibit accidental
  access to admin class command which could ultimately lock the card
  through wrong PIN numbers. Note that GnuPG versions older than 2.0.11
  featured an *--allow-admin* option which was required to use such
  admin commands. This option has no more effect today because the
  default is now to allow admin commands.

- *--disable-application /name/* :: This option disables the use of the
  card application named /name/. This is mainly useful for debugging or
  if a application with lower priority should be used by default.

- *--application-priority /namelist/* :: This option allows one to
  change the order in which applications of a card a tried if no
  specific application was requested. /namelist/ is a space or comma
  delimited list of application names. Unknown names are simply skipped.
  Applications not mentioned in the list are put in the former order at
  the end of the new priority list.

  To get the list of current active applications, use

  #+begin_example
      gpg-connect-agent 'scd getinfo app_list' /bye
  #+end_example

All the long options may also be given in the configuration file after
stripping off the two leading dashes.

* CARD APPLICATIONS
*scdaemon* supports the card applications as described below.

** The OpenPGP card application ``openpgp''

This application is currently only used by *gpg* but may in future also
be useful with *gpgsm*. Version 1 and version 2 of the card is
supported.

The specifications for these cards are available at\\
(*http://g10code.com/docs/openpgp-card-1.0.pdf*) and\\
(*http://g10code.com/docs/openpgp-card-2.0.pdf*).

** The Telesec NetKey card ``nks''

This is the main application of the Telesec cards as available in
Germany. It is a superset of the German DINSIG card. The card is used by
*gpgsm*.

** The DINSIG card application ``dinsig''

This is an application as described in the German draft standard /DIN V
66291-1/. It is intended to be used by cards supporting the German
signature law and its bylaws (SigG and SigV).

** The PKCS#15 card application ``p15''

This is common framework for smart card applications. It is used by
*gpgsm*.

** The Geldkarte card application ``geldkarte''

This is a simple application to display information of a German
Geldkarte. The Geldkarte is a small amount debit card application which
comes with almost all German banking cards.

** The SmartCard-HSM card application ``sc-hsm''

This application adds read-only support for keys and certificates stored
on a (*http://www.smartcard-hsm.com, SmartCard-HSM*).

To generate keys and store certificates you may use
(*https://github.com/OpenSC/OpenSC/wiki/SmartCardHSM, OpenSC*) or the
tools from (*http://www.openscdp.org, OpenSCDP*).

The SmartCard-HSM cards requires a card reader that supports Extended
Length APDUs.

** The Undefined card application ``undefined''

This is a stub application to allow the use of the APDU command even if
no supported application is found on the card. This application is not
used automatically but must be explicitly requested using the SERIALNO
command.

* EXAMPLES

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ scdaemon --server -v
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* FILES
There are a few configuration files to control certain aspects of
*scdaemons*'s operation. Unless noted, they are expected in the current
home directory (see: [option --homedir]).

- *scdaemon.conf* :: This is the standard configuration file read by
  *scdaemon* on startup. It may contain any valid long option; the
  leading two dashes may not be entered and the option may not be
  abbreviated. This default name may be changed on the command line
  (see: [option --options]).

- *scd-event* :: If this file is present and executable, it will be
  called on every card reader's status change. An example of this script
  is provided with the source code distribution. This option is
  deprecated in favor of the *DEVINFO --watch*.

- *reader_/n/.status* :: This file is created by *scdaemon* to let other
  applications now about reader status changes. Its use is now
  deprecated in favor of ‘/scd-event/'.

* SEE ALSO
*gpg-agent*(1), *gpgsm*(1), *gpg*(1)

The full documentation for this tool is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If GnuPG and the info program are properly installed at your site, the
command

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
info gnupg
#+end_example

#+end_quote

should give you access to the complete manual including a menu structure
and an index.
