#+TITLE: Manpages - setterm.1
* NAME
setterm - set terminal attributes

* SYNOPSIS
*setterm* [options]

* DESCRIPTION
*setterm* writes to standard output a character string that will invoke
the specified terminal capabilities. Where possible /terminfo/ is
consulted to find the string to use. Some options however (marked
"virtual consoles only" below) do not correspond to a *terminfo*(5)
capability. In this case, if the terminal type is "con" or "linux" the
string that invokes the specified capabilities on the PC Minix virtual
console driver is output. Options that are not implemented by the
terminal are ignored.

* OPTIONS
For boolean options (*on* or *off*), the default is *on*.

Below, an /8-color/ can be *black*, *red*, *green*, *yellow*, *blue*,
*magenta*, *cyan*, or *white*.

A /16-color/ can be an /8-color/, or *grey*, or *bright* followed by
*red*, *green*, *yellow*, *blue*, *magenta*, *cyan*, or *white*.

The various color options may be set independently, at least on virtual
consoles, though the results of setting multiple modes (for example,
*--underline* and *--half-bright*) are hardware-dependent.

The optional arguments are recommended with = (equals sign) and not
space between the option and the argument. For example
--option=argument. *setterm* can interpret the next non-option argument
as an optional argument too.

*--appcursorkeys* on|off

#+begin_quote
Sets Cursor Key Application Mode on or off. When on, ESC O A, ESC O B,
etc. will be sent for the cursor keys instead of ESC [ A, ESC [ B, etc.
See the /vi and Cursor-Keys/ section of the /Text-Terminal-HOWTO/ for
how this can cause problems for *vi* users. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--append* /console_number/

#+begin_quote
Like *--dump*, but appends to the snapshot file instead of overwriting
it. Only works if no *--dump* options are given.

#+end_quote

*--background* /8-color/|default

#+begin_quote
Sets the background text color.

#+end_quote

*--blank*[=0-60|force|poke]

#+begin_quote
Sets the interval of inactivity, in minutes, after which the screen will
be automatically blanked (using APM if available). Without an argument,
it gets the blank status (returns which vt was blanked, or zero for an
unblanked vt). Virtual consoles only.

The *force* argument keeps the screen blank even if a key is pressed.

The *poke* argument unblanks the screen.

#+end_quote

*--bfreq*[=/number/]

#+begin_quote
Sets the bell frequency in Hertz. Without an argument, it defaults to
*0*. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--blength*[=0-2000]

#+begin_quote
Sets the bell duration in milliseconds. Without an argument, it defaults
to *0*. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--blink* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns blink mode on or off. Except on a virtual console, *--blink off*
turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).

#+end_quote

*--bold* on|off

#+begin_quote
urns bold (extra bright) mode on or off. Except on a virtual console,
*--bold off* turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink,
reverse).

#+end_quote

*--clear*[=all|rest]

#+begin_quote
Without an argument or with the argument *all*, the entire screen is
cleared and the cursor is set to the home position, just like *clear*(1)
does. With the argument *rest*, the screen is cleared from the current
cursor position to the end.

#+end_quote

*--clrtabs*[=/tab1 tab2 tab3/ ...]

#+begin_quote
Clears tab stops from the given horizontal cursor positions, in the
range *1-160*. Without arguments, it clears all tab stops. Virtual
consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--cursor* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns the terminal's cursor on or off.

#+end_quote

*--default*

#+begin_quote
Sets the terminal's rendering options to the default values.

#+end_quote

*--dump*[=/console_number/]

#+begin_quote
Writes a snapshot of the virtual console with the given number to the
file specified with the *--file* option, overwriting its contents; the
default is /screen.dump/. Without an argument, it dumps the current
virtual console. This overrides *--append*.

#+end_quote

*--file* /filename/

#+begin_quote
Sets the snapshot file name for any *--dump* or *--append* options on
the same command line. If this option is not present, the default is
/screen.dump/ in the current directory. A path name that exceeds the
system maximum will be truncated, see *PATH_MAX* from /linux/limits.h/
for the value.

#+end_quote

*--foreground* /8-color/|default

#+begin_quote
Sets the foreground text color.

#+end_quote

*--half-bright* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns dim (half-brightness) mode on or off. Except on a virtual console,
*--half-bright off* turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness,
blink, reverse).

#+end_quote

*--hbcolor* /16-color/

#+begin_quote
Sets the color for half-bright characters.

#+end_quote

*--initialize*

#+begin_quote
Displays the terminal initialization string, which typically sets the
terminal's rendering options, and other attributes to the default
values.

#+end_quote

*--inversescreen* on|off

#+begin_quote
Swaps foreground and background colors for the whole screen.

#+end_quote

*--linewrap* on|off

#+begin_quote
Makes the terminal continue on a new line when a line is full.

#+end_quote

*--msg* on|off

#+begin_quote
Enables or disables the sending of kernel *printk*() messages to the
console. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--msglevel* 0-8

#+begin_quote
Sets the console logging level for kernel *printk()* messages. All
messages strictly more important than this will be printed, so a logging
level of *0* has the same effect as *--msg on* and a logging level of
*8* will print all kernel messages. *klogd*(8) may be a more convenient
interface to the logging of kernel messages.

Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--powerdown*[=0-60]

#+begin_quote
Sets the VESA powerdown interval in minutes. Without an argument, it
defaults to *0* (disable powerdown). If the console is blanked or the
monitor is in suspend mode, then the monitor will go into vsync suspend
mode or powerdown mode respectively after this period of time has
elapsed.

#+end_quote

*--powersave* /mode/

#+begin_quote
Valid values for /mode/ are:

*vsync|on*

#+begin_quote
Puts the monitor into VESA vsync suspend mode.

#+end_quote

*hsync*

#+begin_quote
Puts the monitor into VESA hsync suspend mode.

#+end_quote

*powerdown*

#+begin_quote
Puts the monitor into VESA powerdown mode.

#+end_quote

*off*

#+begin_quote
Turns monitor VESA powersaving features.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

*--regtabs*[=1-160]

#+begin_quote
Clears all tab stops, then sets a regular tab stop pattern, with one tab
every specified number of positions. Without an argument, it defaults to
*8*. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--repeat* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns keyboard repeat on or off. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--reset*

#+begin_quote
Displays the terminal reset string, which typically resets the terminal
to its power-on state.

#+end_quote

*--resize*

#+begin_quote
Reset terminal size by assessing maximum row and column. This is useful
when actual geometry and kernel terminal driver are not in sync. Most
notable use case is with serial consoles, that do not use *ioctl*(2) but
just byte streams and breaks.

#+end_quote

*--reverse* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns reverse video mode on or off. Except on a virtual console,
*--reverse off* turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink,
reverse).

#+end_quote

*--store*

#+begin_quote
Stores the terminal's current rendering options (foreground and
background colors) as the values to be used at reset-to-default. Virtual
consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--tabs*[=/tab1 tab2 tab3/ ...]

#+begin_quote
Sets tab stops at the given horizontal cursor positions, in the range
*1-160*. Without arguments, it shows the current tab stop settings.

#+end_quote

*--term* /terminal_name/

#+begin_quote
Overrides the *TERM* environment variable.

#+end_quote

*--ulcolor* /16-color/

#+begin_quote
Sets the color for underlined characters. Virtual consoles only.

#+end_quote

*--underline* on|off

#+begin_quote
Turns underline mode on or off.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* COMPATIBILITY
Since version 2.25 *setterm* has support for long options with two
hyphens, for example *--help*, beside the historical long options with a
single hyphen, for example *-help*. In scripts it is better to use the
backward-compatible single hyphen rather than the double hyphen.
Currently there are no plans nor good reasons to discontinue
single-hyphen compatibility.

* BUGS
Differences between the Minix and Linux versions are not documented.

* SEE ALSO
*stty*(1), *tput*(1), *tty*(4), *terminfo*(5)

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *setterm* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
