#+TITLE: Manpages - su.1
* NAME
su - change user ID or become superuser

* SYNOPSIS
*su* [/options/] [/-/] [/username/ [ /args/ ]]

* DESCRIPTION
The *su* command is used to become another user during a login session.
Invoked without a *username*, *su* defaults to becoming the superuser.
The *-* option may be used to provide an environment similar to what the
user would expect had the user logged in directly. The *-c* option may
be used to treat the next argument as a command by most shells.

Options are recognized everywhere in the argument list. You can use the
*--* argument to stop option parsing. The *-* option is special: it is
also recognized after *--*, but has to be placed before *username*.

The user will be prompted for a password, if appropriate. Invalid
passwords will produce an error message. All attempts, both valid and
invalid, are logged to detect abuse of the system.

The current environment is passed to the new shell. The value of *$PATH*
is reset to /bin:/usr/bin for normal users, or
/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin for the superuser. This may be changed
with the *ENV_PATH* and *ENV_SUPATH* definitions in /etc/login.defs.

A subsystem login is indicated by the presence of a "*" as the first
character of the login shell. The given home directory will be used as
the root of a new file system which the user is actually logged into.

* OPTIONS
The options which apply to the *su* command are:

*-c*, *--command* /COMMAND/

#+begin_quote
Specify a command that will be invoked by the shell using its *-c*.

The executed command will have no controlling terminal. This option
cannot be used to execute interactive programs which need a controlling
TTY.

#+end_quote

*-*, *-l*, *--login*

#+begin_quote
Provide an environment similar to what the user would expect had the
user logged in directly.

When *-* is used, it must be specified before any *username*. For
portability it is recommended to use it as last option, before any
*username*. The other forms (*-l* and *--login*) do not have this
restriction.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--shell* /SHELL/

#+begin_quote
The shell that will be invoked.

The invoked shell is chosen from (highest priority first):

#+begin_quote
The shell specified with --shell.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
If *--preserve-environment* is used, the shell specified by the *$SHELL*
environment variable.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
The shell indicated in the /etc/passwd entry for the target user.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
/bin/sh if a shell could not be found by any above method.

#+end_quote

If the target user has a restricted shell (i.e. the shell field of this
users entry in /etc/passwd is not listed in /etc/shells), then the
*--shell* option or the *$SHELL* environment variable wont be taken into
account, unless *su* is called by root.

#+end_quote

*-m*, *-p*, *--preserve-environment*

#+begin_quote
Preserve the current environment, except for:

*$PATH*

#+begin_quote
reset according to the /etc/login.defs options *ENV_PATH* or
*ENV_SUPATH* (see below);

#+end_quote

*$IFS*

#+begin_quote
reset to “<space><tab><newline>”, if it was set.

#+end_quote

If the target user has a restricted shell, this option has no effect
(unless *su* is called by root).

Note that the default behavior for the environment is the following:

#+begin_quote
The *$HOME*, *$SHELL*, *$USER*, *$LOGNAME*, *$PATH*, and *$IFS*
environment variables are reset.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
If *--login* is not used, the environment is copied, except for the
variables above.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
If *--login* is used, the *$TERM*, *$COLORTERM*, *$DISPLAY*, and
*$XAUTHORITY* environment variables are copied if they were set.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
Other environments might be set by PAM modules.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* CAVEATS
This version of *su* has many compilation options, only some of which
may be in use at any particular site.

* CONFIGURATION
The following configuration variables in /etc/login.defs change the
behavior of this tool:

*DEFAULT_HOME* (boolean)

#+begin_quote
Indicate if login is allowed if we cant cd to the home directory.
Default is no.

If set to /yes/, the user will login in the root (/) directory if it is
not possible to cd to her home directory.

#+end_quote

*ENV_PATH* (string)

#+begin_quote
If set, it will be used to define the PATH environment variable when a
regular user login. The value is a colon separated list of paths (for
example //bin:/usr/bin/) and can be preceded by /PATH=/. The default
value is /PATH=/bin:/usr/bin/.

#+end_quote

*ENV_SUPATH* (string)

#+begin_quote
If set, it will be used to define the PATH environment variable when the
superuser login. The value is a colon separated list of paths (for
example //sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin/) and can be preceded by /PATH=/.
The default value is /PATH=/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin/.

#+end_quote

*SULOG_FILE* (string)

#+begin_quote
If defined, all su activity is logged to this file.

#+end_quote

*SU_NAME* (string)

#+begin_quote
If defined, the command name to display when running "su -". For
example, if this is defined as "su" then a "ps" will display the command
is "-su". If not defined, then "ps" would display the name of the shell
actually being run, e.g. something like "-sh".

#+end_quote

*SYSLOG_SU_ENAB* (boolean)

#+begin_quote
Enable "syslog" logging of *su* activity - in addition to sulog file
logging.

#+end_quote

* FILES
/etc/passwd

#+begin_quote
User account information.

#+end_quote

/etc/shadow

#+begin_quote
Secure user account information.

#+end_quote

/etc/login.defs

#+begin_quote
Shadow password suite configuration.

#+end_quote

* EXIT VALUES
On success, *su* returns the exit value of the command it executed.

If this command was terminated by a signal, *su* returns the number of
this signal plus 128.

If su has to kill the command (because it was asked to terminate, and
the command did not terminate in time), *su* returns 255.

Some exit values from *su* are independent from the executed command:

/0/

#+begin_quote
success (*--help* only)

#+end_quote

/1/

#+begin_quote
System or authentication failure

#+end_quote

/126/

#+begin_quote
The requested command was not found

#+end_quote

/127/

#+begin_quote
The requested command could not be executed

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*login*(1), *login.defs*(5), *sg*(1), *sh*(1).
