#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-socket-activate.1
* NAME
systemd-socket-activate - Test socket activation of daemons

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-socket-activate* [OPTIONS...] /daemon/ [OPTIONS...]

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-socket-activate* may be used to launch a socket-activated
service program from the command line for testing purposes. It may also
be used to launch individual instances of the service program per
connection.

The daemon to launch and its options should be specified after options
intended for *systemd-socket-activate*.

If the *--inetd* option is given, the socket file descriptor will be
used as the standard input and output of the launched process.
Otherwise, standard input and output will be inherited, and sockets will
be passed through file descriptors 3 and higher. Sockets passed through
/$LISTEN_FDS/ to *systemd-socket-activate* will be passed through to the
daemon, in the original positions. Other sockets specified with
*--listen=* will use consecutive descriptors. By default,
*systemd-socket-activate* listens on a stream socket, use *--datagram*
and *--seqpacket* to listen on datagram or sequential packet sockets
instead (see below).

* OPTIONS
*-l */address/, *--listen=*/address/

#+begin_quote
Listen on this /address/. Takes a string like "2000" or
"127.0.0.1:2001".

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*-a*, *--accept*

#+begin_quote
Launch an instance of the service program for each connection and pass
the connection socket.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*-d*, *--datagram*

#+begin_quote
Listen on a datagram socket (*SOCK_DGRAM*), instead of a stream socket
(*SOCK_STREAM*). May not be combined with *--seqpacket*.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*--seqpacket*

#+begin_quote
Listen on a sequential packet socket (*SOCK_SEQPACKET*), instead of a
stream socket (*SOCK_STREAM*). May not be combined with *--datagram*.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*--inetd*

#+begin_quote
Use the inetd protocol for passing file descriptors, i.e. as standard
input and standard output, instead of the new-style protocol for passing
file descriptors using /$LISTEN_FDS/ (see above).

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*-E */VAR/*[=*/VALUE/], *--setenv=*/VAR/*[=*/VALUE/]

#+begin_quote
Add this variable to the environment of the launched process. If /VAR/
is followed by "=", assume that it is a variable--value pair. Otherwise,
obtain the value from the environment of *systemd-socket-activate*
itself.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*--fdname=*/NAME/*[:*/NAME/...]

#+begin_quote
Specify names for the file descriptors passed. This is equivalent to
setting /FileDescriptorName=/ in socket unit files, and enables use of
*sd_listen_fds_with_names*(3). Multiple entries may be specifies using
separate options or by separating names with colons (":") in one option.
In case more names are given than descriptors, superfluous ones will be
ignored. In case less names are given than descriptors, the remaining
file descriptors will be unnamed.

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
/$LISTEN_FDS/, /$LISTEN_PID/, /$LISTEN_FDNAMES/

#+begin_quote
See *sd_listen_fds*(3).

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/,
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/

#+begin_quote
Same as in *systemd*(1).

Added in version 230.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Run an echo server on port 2000*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ systemd-socket-activate -l 2000 --inetd -a cat
#+end_example

#+end_quote

*Example 2. Run a socket-activated instance of
systemd-journal-gatewayd(8)*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ systemd-socket-activate -l 19531 /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-journal-gatewayd
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd.socket*(5), *systemd.service*(5),
*systemd-run*(1), *sd_listen_fds*(3), *sd_listen_fds_with_names*(3),
*cat*(1)
