#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-vpick.1
* NAME
systemd-vpick - Resolve paths to ".v/" versioned directories

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-vpick [OPTIONS...] [PATH...]*

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-vpick* resolves a file system path referencing a ".v/"
versioned directory to a path to the newest (by version) file contained
therein. This tool provides a command line interface for the
*systemd.v*(7) logic.

The tool expects a path to a ".v/" directory as argument (either
directly, or with a triple underscore pattern as final component). It
then determines the newest file contained in that directory, and writes
its path to standard output.

Unless the triple underscore pattern is passed as last component of the
path, it is typically necessary to at least specify the *--suffix=*
switch to configure the file suffix to look for.

If the specified path does not reference a ".v/" path (i.e. neither the
final component ends in ".v", nor the penultimate does or the final one
does contain a triple underscore) it specified path is written
unmodified to standard output.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*--basename=*, *-B*

#+begin_quote
Overrides the "basename" of the files to look for, i.e. the part to the
left of the variable part of the filenames. Normally this is derived
automatically from the filename of the ".v" component of the specified
path, or from the triple underscore pattern in the last component of the
specified path.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-V*

#+begin_quote
Explicitly configures the version to select. If specified, a filename
with the specified version string will be looked for, instead of the
newest version available.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-A*

#+begin_quote
Explicitly configures the architecture to select. If specified, a
filename with the specified architecture identifier will be looked for.
If not specified only filenames with a locally supported architecture
are considered, or those without any architecture identifier.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--suffix=*, *-S*

#+begin_quote
Configures the suffix of the filenames to consider. For the ".v/" logic
it is necessary to specify the suffix to look for, and the ".v/"
component must also carry the suffix immediately before ".v" in its
name.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--type=*, *-t*

#+begin_quote
Configures the inode type to look for in the ".v/" directory. Takes one
of "reg", "dir", "sock", "fifo", "blk", "chr", "lnk" as argument, each
identifying an inode type. See *inode*(7) for details about inode types.
If this option is used inodes not matching the specified type are
filtered and not taken into consideration.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--print=*, *-p*

#+begin_quote
Configures what precisely to write to standard output. If not specified
prints the full, resolved path of the newest matching file in the ".v/"
directory. This switch can be set to one of the following:

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "filename", will print only the filename instead of the full
path of the resolved file.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "version", will print only the version of the resolved file.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "type", will print only the inode type of the resolved file
(i.e. a string such as "reg" for regular files, or "dir" for
directories).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "arch", will print only the architecture of the resolved file.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "tries", will print only the tries left/tries done of the
resolved file.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

If set to "all", will print all of the above in a simple tabular output.

#+end_quote

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--resolve=*

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. If true the path to the versioned file is
fully canonicalized (i.e. symlinks resolved, and redundant path
components removed) before it is shown. If false (the default) this is
not done, and the path is shown without canonicalization.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
Use a command like the following to automatically pick the newest raw
disk image from a ".v/" directory:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ systemd-vpick --suffix=.raw --type=reg /var/lib/machines/quux.raw.v/
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This will enumerate all regular files matching
/var/lib/machines/quux.raw.v/quux*.raw, filter and sort them according
to the rules described in *systemd.v*(7), and then write the path to the
newest (by version) file to standard output.

Use a command like the following to automatically pick the newest OS
directory tree from a ".v/" directory:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ systemd-vpick --type=dir /var/lib/machines/waldo.v/
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This will enumerate all directory inodes matching
/var/lib/machines/waldo.v/waldo*, filter and sort them according to the
rules described in *systemd.v*(7), and then write the path to the newest
(by version) directory to standard output.

For further examples see *systemd.v*(7).

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd.v*(7)
