#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-dissect.1
* NAME
systemd-dissect, mount.ddi - Dissect Discoverable Disk Images (DDIs)

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] /IMAGE/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--mount] /IMAGE/ /PATH/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--umount] /PATH/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--attach] /IMAGE/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--detach] /PATH/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--list] /IMAGE/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--mtree] /IMAGE/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--with] /IMAGE/ [/COMMAND/...]

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--copy-from] /IMAGE/ /PATH/ [/TARGET/]

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--copy-to] /IMAGE/ [/SOURCE/] /PATH/

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--make-archive] /IMAGE/ [/TARGET/]

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--discover]

*systemd-dissect* [OPTIONS...] [--validate] /IMAGE/

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-dissect* is a tool for introspecting and interacting with file
system OS disk images, specifically Discoverable Disk Images (DDIs). It
supports four different operations:

#+begin_quote
1.

Show general OS image information, including the images *os-release*(5)
data, machine ID, partition information and more.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

Mount an OS image to a local directory. In this mode it will dissect the
OS image and mount the included partitions according to their
designation onto a directory and possibly sub-directories.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

Unmount an OS image from a local directory. In this mode it will
recursively unmount the mounted partitions and remove the underlying
loop device, including all the partition sub-devices.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

Copy files and directories in and out of an OS image.

#+end_quote

The tool may operate on three types of OS images:

#+begin_quote
1.

OS disk images containing a GPT partition table envelope, with
partitions marked according to the *Discoverable Partitions
Specification*[1].

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

OS disk images containing just a plain file-system without an enveloping
partition table. (This file system is assumed to be the root file system
of the OS.)

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

OS disk images containing a GPT or MBR partition table, with a single
partition only. (This partition is assumed to contain the root file
system of the OS.)

#+end_quote

OS images may use any kind of Linux-supported file systems. In addition
they may make use of LUKS disk encryption, and contain Verity integrity
information. Note that qualifying OS images may be booted with
*systemd-nspawn*(1)s *--image=* switch, and be used as root file system
for system service using the /RootImage=/ unit file setting, see
*systemd.exec*(5).

Note that the partition table shown when invoked without command switch
(as listed below) does not necessarily show all partitions included in
the image, but just the partitions that are understood and considered
part of an OS disk image. Specifically, partitions of unknown types are
ignored, as well as duplicate partitions (i.e. more than one per
partition type), as are root and /usr/ partitions of architectures not
compatible with the local system. In other words: this tool will display
what it operates with when mounting the image. To display the complete
list of partitions use a tool such as *fdisk*(8).

The *systemd-dissect* command may be invoked as *mount.ddi* in which
case it implements the *mount*(8) "external helper" interface. This
ensures disk images compatible with *systemd-dissect* can be mounted
directly by *mount* and *fstab*(5). For details see below.

In place of the image path a ".v/" versioned directory may be specified,
see *systemd.v*(7) for details.

* COMMANDS
If neither of the command switches listed below are passed the specified
disk image is opened and general information about the image and the
contained partitions and their use is shown.

*--mount*, *-m*

#+begin_quote
Mount the specified OS image to the specified directory. This will
dissect the image, determine the OS root file system --- as well as
possibly other partitions --- and mount them to the specified directory.
If the OS image contains multiple partitions marked with the
*Discoverable Partitions Specification*[1] multiple nested mounts are
established. This command expects two arguments: a path to an image file
and a path to a directory where to mount the image.

To unmount an OS image mounted like this use the *--umount* operation.

When the OS image contains LUKS encrypted or Verity integrity protected
file systems appropriate volumes are automatically set up and marked for
automatic disassembly when the image is unmounted.

The OS image may either be specified as path to an OS image stored in a
regular file or may refer to block device node (in the latter case the
block device must be the "whole" device, i.e. not a partition device).
(The other supported commands described here support this, too.)

All mounted file systems are checked with the appropriate *fsck*(8)
implementation in automatic fixing mode, unless explicitly turned off
(*--fsck=no*) or read-only operation is requested (*--read-only*).

Note that this functionality is also available in *mount*(8) via a
command such as *mount -t ddi myimage.raw targetdir/*, as well as in
*fstab*(5). For details, see below.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*-M*

#+begin_quote
This is a shortcut for *--mount --mkdir*.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--umount*, *-u*

#+begin_quote
Unmount an OS image from the specified directory. This command expects
one argument: a directory where an OS image was mounted.

All mounted partitions will be recursively unmounted, and the underlying
loop device will be removed, along with all its partition sub-devices.

Added in version 252.

#+end_quote

*-U*

#+begin_quote
This is a shortcut for *--umount --rmdir*.

Added in version 252.

#+end_quote

*--attach*

#+begin_quote
Attach the specified disk image to an automatically allocated loopback
block device, and print the path to the loopback block device to
standard output. This is similar to an invocation of *losetup --find
--show*, but will validate the image as DDI before attaching, and derive
the correct sector size to use automatically. Moreover, it ensures the
per-partition block devices are created before returning. Takes a path
to a disk image file.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--detach*

#+begin_quote
Detach the specified disk image from a loopback block device. This
undoes the effect of *--attach* above. This expects either a path to a
loopback block device as an argument, or the path to the backing image
file. In the latter case it will automatically determine the right
device to detach.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--list*, *-l*

#+begin_quote
Prints the paths of all the files and directories in the specified OS
image or directory to standard output.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--mtree*

#+begin_quote
Generates a BSD *mtree*(8) compatible file manifest of the specified
disk image or directory. This is useful for comparing image contents in
detail, including inode information and other metadata. While the
generated manifest will contain detailed inode information, it currently
excludes extended attributes, file system capabilities, MAC labels,
*chattr*(1) file flags, *btrfs*(5) subvolume information, and various
other file metadata. File content information is shown via a SHA256
digest. Additional fields might be added in future. Note that inode
information such as link counts, inode numbers and timestamps is
excluded from the output on purpose, as it typically complicates
reproducibility.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--with*

#+begin_quote
Runs the specified command with the specified OS image mounted. This
will mount the image to a temporary directory, switch the current
working directory to it, and invoke the specified command line as child
process. Once the process ends it will unmount the image again, and
remove the temporary directory. If no command is specified a shell is
invoked. The image is mounted writable, use *--read-only* to switch to
read-only operation. The invoked process will have the
/$SYSTEMD_DISSECT_ROOT/ environment variable set, containing the
absolute path name of the temporary mount point, i.e. the same directory
that is set as the current working directory. It will also have the
/$SYSTEMD_DISSECT_DEVICE/ environment variable set, containing the
absolute path name of the loop device the image was attached to.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--copy-from*, *-x*

#+begin_quote
Copies a file or directory from the specified OS image or directory into
the specified location on the host file system. Expects three arguments:
a path to an image file or directory, a source path (relative to the
images root directory) and a destination path (relative to the current
working directory, or an absolute path, both outside of the image). If
the destination path is omitted or specified as dash ("-"), the
specified file is written to standard output. If the source path in the
image file system refers to a regular file it is copied to the
destination path. In this case access mode, extended attributes and
timestamps are copied as well, but file ownership is not. If the source
path in the image refers to a directory, it is copied to the destination
path, recursively with all containing files and directories. In this
case the file ownership is copied too.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--copy-to*, *-a*

#+begin_quote
Copies a file or directory from the specified location in the host file
system into the specified OS image or directory. Expects three
arguments: a path to an image file or directory, a source path (relative
to the current working directory, or an absolute path, both outside of
the image) and a destination path (relative to the images root
directory). If the source path is omitted or specified as dash ("-"),
the data to write is read from standard input. If the source path in the
host file system refers to a regular file, it is copied to the
destination path. In this case access mode, extended attributes and
timestamps are copied as well, but file ownership is not. If the source
path in the host file system refers to a directory it is copied to the
destination path, recursively with all containing files and directories.
In this case the file ownership is copied too.

As with *--mount* file system checks are implicitly run before the copy
operation begins.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--make-archive*

#+begin_quote
Generates an archive file from the specified disk image. Expects two
arguments: the path to the disk image and optionally the output archive
file path. If the latter is omitted the archive is written to standard
output. The archive file format is determined automatically from the
specified output archive file name, e.g. any path suffixed with
".tar.xz" will result in an xz compressed UNIX tarball (if the path is
omitted an uncompressed UNIX tarball is created). See *libarchive*(3)
for a list of supported archive formats and compression schemes.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--discover*

#+begin_quote
Show a list of DDIs in well-known directories. This will show machine,
portable service and system/configuration extension disk images in the
usual directories /usr/lib/machines/, /usr/lib/portables/,
/usr/lib/confexts/, /var/lib/machines/, /var/lib/portables/,
/var/lib/extensions/ and so on.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--validate*

#+begin_quote
Validates the partition arrangement of a disk image (DDI), and ensures
it matches the image policy specified via *--image-policy=*, if one is
specified. This parses the partition table and probes the file systems
in the image, but does not attempt to mount them (nor to set up disk
encryption/authentication via LUKS/Verity). It does this taking the
configured image dissection policy into account. Since this operation
does not mount file systems, this command -- unlike all other commands
implemented by this tool -- requires no privileges other than the
ability to access the specified file. Prints "OK" and returns zero if
the image appears to be in order and matches the specified image
dissection policy. Otherwise prints an error message and returns
non-zero.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*--read-only*, *-r*

#+begin_quote
Operate in read-only mode. By default *--mount* will establish writable
mount points. If this option is specified they are established in
read-only mode instead.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--fsck=no*

#+begin_quote
Turn off automatic file system checking. By default when an image is
accessed for writing (by *--mount* or *--copy-to*) the file systems
contained in the OS image are automatically checked using the
appropriate *fsck*(8) command, in automatic fixing mode. This behavior
may be switched off using *--fsck=no*.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--growfs=no*

#+begin_quote
Turn off automatic growing of accessed file systems to their partition
size, if marked for that in the GPT partition table. By default when an
image is accessed for writing (by *--mount* or *--copy-to*) the file
systems contained in the OS image are automatically grown to their
partition sizes, if bit 59 in the GPT partition flags is set for
partition types that are defined by the *Discoverable Partitions
Specification*[1]. This behavior may be switched off using
*--growfs=no*. File systems are grown automatically on access if all of
the following conditions are met:

#+begin_quote
1.

The file system is mounted writable

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

The file system currently is smaller than the partition it is contained
in (and thus can be grown)

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

The image contains a GPT partition table

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

The file system is stored on a partition defined by the Discoverable
Partitions Specification

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
5.

Bit 59 of the GPT partition flags for this partition is set, as per
specification

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
6.

The *--growfs=no* option is not passed.

#+end_quote

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

*--mkdir*

#+begin_quote
If combined with *--mount* the directory to mount the OS image to is
created if it is missing. Note that the directory is not automatically
removed when the disk image is unmounted again.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--rmdir*

#+begin_quote
If combined with *--umount* the specified directory where the OS image
is mounted is removed after unmounting the OS image.

Added in version 252.

#+end_quote

*--discard=*

#+begin_quote
Takes one of "disabled", "loop", "all", "crypto". If "disabled" the
image is accessed with empty block discarding turned off. If "loop"
discarding is enabled if operating on a regular file. If "crypt"
discarding is enabled even on encrypted file systems. If "all"
discarding is unconditionally enabled.

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--in-memory*

#+begin_quote
If specified an in-memory copy of the specified disk image is used. This
may be used to operate with write-access on a (possibly read-only)
image, without actually modifying the original file. This may also be
used in order to operate on a disk image without keeping the originating
file system busy, in order to allow it to be unmounted.

Added in version 253.

#+end_quote

*--root-hash=*, *--root-hash-sig=*, *--verity-data=*

#+begin_quote
Configure various aspects of Verity data integrity for the OS image.
Option *--root-hash=* specifies a hex-encoded top-level Verity hash to
use for setting up the Verity integrity protection. Option
*--root-hash-sig=* specifies the path to a file containing a PKCS#7
signature for the hash. This signature is passed to the kernel during
activation, which will match it against signature keys available in the
kernel keyring. Option *--verity-data=* specifies a path to a file with
the Verity data to use for the OS image, in case it is stored in a
detached file. It is recommended to embed the Verity data directly in
the image, using the Verity mechanisms in the *Discoverable Partitions
Specification*[1].

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

*--loop-ref=*

#+begin_quote
Configures the "reference" string the kernel shall report as backing
file for the loopback block device. While this is supposed to be a path
or filename referencing the backing file, this is not enforced and the
kernel accepts arbitrary free-form strings, chosen by the user. Accepts
arbitrary strings up to a length of 63 characters. This sets the kernels
".lo_file_name" field for the block device. Note this is distinct from
the /sys/class/block/loopX/loop/backing_file attribute file that always
reports a path referring to the actual backing file. The latter is
subject to mount namespace translation, the former is not.

This setting is particularly useful in combination with the *--attach*
command, as it allows later referencing the allocated loop device via
/dev/disk/by-loop-ref/... symlinks. Example: first, set up the loopback
device via *systemd-dissect attach --loop-ref=quux foo.raw*, and then
reference it in a command via the specified filename: *cfdisk
/dev/disk/by-loop-ref/quux*.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--mtree-hash=no*

#+begin_quote
If combined with *--mtree*, turns off inclusion of file hashes in the
mtree output. This makes the *--mtree* faster when operating on large
images.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*--image-policy=*/policy/

#+begin_quote
Takes an image policy string as argument, as per
*systemd.image-policy*(7). The policy is enforced when operating on the
disk image specified via *--image=*, see above. If not specified
defaults to the "*" policy, i.e. all recognized file systems in the
image are used.

#+end_quote

*--no-pager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager.

#+end_quote

*--no-legend*

#+begin_quote
Do not print the legend, i.e. column headers and the footer with hints.

#+end_quote

*--json=*/MODE/

#+begin_quote
Shows output formatted as JSON. Expects one of "short" (for the shortest
possible output without any redundant whitespace or line breaks),
"pretty" (for a pretty version of the same, with indentation and line
breaks) or "off" (to turn off JSON output, the default).

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise. If the
*--with* command is used the exit status of the invoked command is
propagated.

* INVOCATION AS /SBIN/MOUNT.DDI
The *systemd-dissect* executable may be symlinked to /sbin/mount.ddi. If
invoked through that it implements *mount*(8)s "external helper"
interface for the (pseudo) file system type "ddi". This means conformant
disk images may be mounted directly via

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# mount -t ddi myimage.raw targetdir/
#+end_example

#+end_quote

in a fashion mostly equivalent to:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# systemd-dissect --mount myimage.raw targetdir/
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Note that since a single DDI may contain multiple file systems it should
later be unmounted with *umount -R targetdir/*, for recursive operation.

This functionality is particularly useful to mount DDIs automatically at
boot via simple /etc/fstab entries. For example:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
/path/to/myimage.raw /images/myimage/ ddi defaults 0 0
#+end_example

#+end_quote

When invoked this way the mount options "ro", "rw", "discard",
"nodiscard" map to the corresponding options listed above (i.e.
*--read-only*, *--discard=all*, *--discard=disabled*). Mount options are
/not/ generically passed on to the file systems inside the images.

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Generate a tarball from an OS disk image (--with)*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# systemd-dissect --with foo.raw tar cz . >foo.tar.gz
#+end_example

#+end_quote

or alternatively just:

*Example 2. Generate a tarball from an OS disk image (--make-archive)*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# systemd-dissect --make-archive foo.raw foo.tar.gz
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemd-nspawn*(1), *systemd.exec*(5), *systemd.v*(7),
*Discoverable Partitions Specification*[1], *mount*(8), *umount*(8),
*fdisk*(8)

* NOTES
-  1. :: Discoverable Partitions Specification

  https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/discoverable_partitions_specification
