#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-cat.1
* NAME
systemd-cat - Connect a pipeline or programs output with the journal

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-cat* [OPTIONS...] [COMMAND] [ARGUMENTS...]

*systemd-cat* [OPTIONS...]

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-cat* may be used to connect the standard input and output of a
process to the journal, or as a filter tool in a shell pipeline to pass
the output the previous pipeline element generates to the journal.

If no parameter is passed, *systemd-cat* will write everything it reads
from standard input (stdin) to the journal.

If parameters are passed, they are executed as command line with
standard output (stdout) and standard error output (stderr) connected to
the journal, so that all it writes is stored in the journal.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

*-t*, *--identifier=*

#+begin_quote
Specify a short string that is used to identify the logging tool. If not
specified, no identification string is written to the journal.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--priority=*

#+begin_quote
Specify the default priority level for the logged messages. Pass one of
"emerg", "alert", "crit", "err", "warning", "notice", "info", "debug",
or a value between 0 and 7 (corresponding to the same named levels).
These priority values are the same as defined by *syslog*(3). Defaults
to "info". Note that this simply controls the default, individual lines
may be logged with different levels if they are prefixed accordingly.
For details, see *--level-prefix=* below.

#+end_quote

*--stderr-priority=*

#+begin_quote
Specifies the default priority level for messages from the processs
standard error output (stderr). Usage of this option is the same as the
*--priority=* option, above, and both can be used at once. When both are
used, *--priority=* will specify the default priority for standard
output (stdout).

If *--stderr-priority=* is not specified, messages from stderr will
still be logged, with the same default priority level as stdout.

Also, note that when stdout and stderr use the same default priority,
the messages will be strictly ordered, because one channel is used for
both. When the default priority differs, two channels are used, and so
stdout messages will not be strictly ordered with respect to stderr
messages - though they will tend to be approximately ordered.

Added in version 241.

#+end_quote

*--level-prefix=*

#+begin_quote
Controls whether lines read are parsed for syslog priority level
prefixes. If enabled (the default), a line prefixed with a priority
prefix such as "<5>" is logged at priority 5 ("notice"), and similarly
for the other priority levels. Takes a boolean argument.

#+end_quote

*--namespace=*

#+begin_quote
Specifies the journal namespace to which the standard IO should be
connected. For details about journal namespaces, see
*systemd-journald.service*(8).

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Invoke a program*

This calls /bin/ls with standard output and error connected to the
journal:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# systemd-cat ls
#+end_example

#+end_quote

*Example 2. Usage in a shell pipeline*

This builds a shell pipeline also invoking /bin/ls and writes the output
it generates to the journal:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# ls | systemd-cat
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Even though the two examples have very similar effects, the first is
preferable, since only one process is running at a time and both stdout
and stderr are captured, while in the second example, only stdout is
captured.

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *systemctl*(1), *logger*(1)
