#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-machine-id-setup.1
* NAME
systemd-machine-id-setup - Initialize the machine ID in /etc/machine-id

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-machine-id-setup*

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-machine-id-setup* may be used by system installer tools to
initialize the machine ID stored in /etc/machine-id at install time,
with a provisioned or randomly generated ID. See *machine-id*(5) for
more information about this file.

If the tool is invoked without the *--commit* switch, /etc/machine-id is
initialized with a valid, new machine ID if it is missing or empty. The
new machine ID will be acquired in the following fashion:

#+begin_quote
1.

If a valid machine ID is stored in /run/machine-id, the machine ID is
copied and used to initialize the machine ID in /etc/machine-id. This
step is skipped if *--root=* is specified or running in a chroot
environment.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

If a valid D-Bus machine ID is already configured for the system, the
D-Bus machine ID is copied and used to initialize the machine ID in
/etc/machine-id.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

If a valid machine ID is provided through *system.machine_id*
credential, the machine ID is copied and used to initialize the machine
ID in /etc/machine-id. This step is skipped if *--root=* is specified or
running in a chroot environment.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

If run inside a KVM virtual machine and a UUID is configured (via the
*-uuid* option), this UUID is used to initialize the machine ID. The
caller must ensure that the UUID passed is sufficiently unique and is
different for every booted instance of the VM. This step is skipped if
*--root=* is specified or running in a chroot environment.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
5.

Similarly, if run inside a Linux container environment and a UUID is
configured for the container, this is used to initialize the machine ID.
For details, see the documentation of the *Container Interface*[1]. This
step is skipped if *--root=* is specified or running in a chroot
environment.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
6.

Otherwise, a new ID is randomly generated.

#+end_quote

The *--commit* switch may be used to commit a transient machined ID to
disk, making it persistent. For details, see below.

Use *systemd-firstboot*(1) to initialize the machine ID on mounted (but
not booted) system images.

* OPTIONS
The following options are understood:

*--root=*/path/

#+begin_quote
Takes a directory path as argument. All paths operated on will be
prefixed with the given alternate /root/ path, including the path for
/etc/machine-id itself.

Added in version 212.

#+end_quote

*--image=*/path/

#+begin_quote
Takes a path to a device node or regular file as argument. This is
similar to *--root=* as described above, but operates on a disk image
instead of a directory tree.

Added in version 249.

#+end_quote

*--image-policy=*/policy/

#+begin_quote
Takes an image policy string as argument, as per
*systemd.image-policy*(7). The policy is enforced when operating on the
disk image specified via *--image=*, see above. If not specified
defaults to the "*" policy, i.e. all recognized file systems in the
image are used.

#+end_quote

*--commit*

#+begin_quote
Commit a transient machine ID to disk. This command may be used to
convert a transient machine ID into a persistent one. A transient
machine ID file is one that was bind mounted from a memory file system
(usually "tmpfs") to /etc/machine-id during the early phase of the boot
process. This may happen because /etc/ is initially read-only and was
missing a valid machine ID file at that point.

This command will execute no operation if /etc/machine-id is not mounted
from a memory file system, or if /etc/ is read-only. The command will
write the current transient machine ID to disk and unmount the
/etc/machine-id mount point in a race-free manner to ensure that this
file is always valid and accessible for other processes.

This command is primarily used by the
*systemd-machine-id-commit.service*(8) early boot service.

Added in version 227.

#+end_quote

*--print*

#+begin_quote
Print the machine ID generated or committed after the operation is
complete.

Added in version 231.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *machine-id*(5), *systemd-machine-id-commit.service*(8),
*dbus-uuidgen*(1), *systemd-firstboot*(1)

* NOTES
-  1. :: Container Interface

  https://systemd.io/CONTAINER_INTERFACE
