#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd.1
* NAME
systemd, init - systemd system and service manager

* SYNOPSIS
*/usr/lib/systemd/systemd* [OPTIONS...]

*init* [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND}

* DESCRIPTION
systemd is a system and service manager for Linux operating systems.
When run as first process on boot (as PID 1), it acts as init system
that brings up and maintains userspace services. Separate instances are
started for logged-in users to start their services.

*systemd* is usually not invoked directly by the user, but is installed
as the /sbin/init symlink and started during early boot. The user
manager instances are started automatically through the
*user@.service*(5) service.

For compatibility with SysV, if the binary is called as *init* and is
not the first process on the machine (PID is not 1), it will execute
*telinit* and pass all command line arguments unmodified. That means
*init* and *telinit* are mostly equivalent when invoked from normal
login sessions. See *telinit*(8) for more information.

When run as a system instance, systemd interprets the configuration file
system.conf and the files in system.conf.d directories; when run as a
user instance, systemd interprets the configuration file user.conf and
the files in user.conf.d directories. See *systemd-system.conf*(5) for
more information.

*systemd* contains native implementations of various tasks that need to
be executed as part of the boot process. For example, it sets the
hostname or configures the loopback network device. It also sets up and
mounts various API file systems, such as /sys/, /proc/, and /dev/.

Note that some but not all interfaces provided by systemd are covered by
the *Interface Portability and Stability Promise*[1].

The D-Bus API of *systemd* is described in *org.freedesktop.systemd1*(5)
and *org.freedesktop.LogControl1*(5).

Systems which invoke systemd in a container or initrd environment should
implement the *Container Interface*[2] or *initrd Interface*[3]
specifications, respectively.

* UNITS
systemd provides a dependency system between various entities called
"units" of 11 different types. Units encapsulate various objects that
are relevant for system boot-up and maintenance. The majority of units
are configured in unit configuration files, whose syntax and basic set
of options is described in *systemd.unit*(5), however some are created
automatically from other configuration files, dynamically from system
state or programmatically at runtime. Units may be "active" (meaning
started, bound, plugged in, ..., depending on the unit type, see below),
or "inactive" (meaning stopped, unbound, unplugged, ...), as well as in
the process of being activated or deactivated, i.e. between the two
states (these states are called "activating", "deactivating"). A special
"failed" state is available as well, which is very similar to "inactive"
and is entered when the service failed in some way (process returned
error code on exit, or crashed, an operation timed out, or after too
many restarts). If this state is entered, the cause will be logged, for
later reference. Note that the various unit types may have a number of
additional substates, which are mapped to the five generalized unit
states described here.

The following unit types are available:

#+begin_quote
1.

Service units, which start and control daemons and the processes they
consist of. For details, see *systemd.service*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

Socket units, which encapsulate local IPC or network sockets in the
system, useful for socket-based activation. For details about socket
units, see *systemd.socket*(5), for details on socket-based activation
and other forms of activation, see *daemon*(7).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

Target units are useful to group units, or provide well-known
synchronization points during boot-up, see *systemd.target*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

Device units expose kernel devices in systemd and may be used to
implement device-based activation. For details, see *systemd.device*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
5.

Mount units control mount points in the file system, for details see
*systemd.mount*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
6.

Automount units provide automount capabilities, for on-demand mounting
of file systems as well as parallelized boot-up. See
*systemd.automount*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
7.

Timer units are useful for triggering activation of other units based on
timers. You may find details in *systemd.timer*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
8.

Swap units are very similar to mount units and encapsulate memory swap
partitions or files of the operating system. They are described in
*systemd.swap*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
9.

Path units may be used to activate other services when file system
objects change or are modified. See *systemd.path*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
10.

Slice units may be used to group units which manage system processes
(such as service and scope units) in a hierarchical tree for resource
management purposes. See *systemd.slice*(5).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
11.

Scope units are similar to service units, but manage foreign processes
instead of starting them as well. See *systemd.scope*(5).

#+end_quote

Units are named as their configuration files. Some units have special
semantics. A detailed list is available in *systemd.special*(7).

systemd knows various kinds of dependencies, including positive and
negative requirement dependencies (i.e. /Requires=/ and /Conflicts=/) as
well as ordering dependencies (/After=/ and /Before=/). NB: ordering and
requirement dependencies are orthogonal. If only a requirement
dependency exists between two units (e.g. foo.service requires
bar.service), but no ordering dependency (e.g. foo.service after
bar.service) and both are requested to start, they will be started in
parallel. It is a common pattern that both requirement and ordering
dependencies are placed between two units. Also note that the majority
of dependencies are implicitly created and maintained by systemd. In
most cases, it should be unnecessary to declare additional dependencies
manually, however it is possible to do this.

Application programs and units (via dependencies) may request state
changes of units. In systemd, these requests are encapsulated as jobs
and maintained in a job queue. Jobs may succeed or can fail, their
execution is ordered based on the ordering dependencies of the units
they have been scheduled for.

On boot systemd activates the target unit default.target whose job is to
activate on-boot services and other on-boot units by pulling them in via
dependencies. Usually, the unit name is just an alias (symlink) for
either graphical.target (for fully-featured boots into the UI) or
multi-user.target (for limited console-only boots for use in embedded or
server environments, or similar; a subset of graphical.target). However,
it is at the discretion of the administrator to configure it as an alias
to any other target unit. See *systemd.special*(7) for details about
these target units.

On first boot, *systemd* will enable or disable units according to
preset policy. See *systemd.preset*(5) and "First Boot Semantics" in
*machine-id*(5).

systemd only keeps a minimal set of units loaded into memory.
Specifically, the only units that are kept loaded into memory are those
for which at least one of the following conditions is true:

#+begin_quote
1.

It is in an active, activating, deactivating or failed state (i.e. in
any unit state except for "inactive")

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
2.

It has a job queued for it

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
3.

It is a dependency of at least one other unit that is loaded into memory

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
4.

It has some form of resource still allocated (e.g. a service unit that
is inactive but for which a process is still lingering that ignored the
request to be terminated)

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
5.

It has been pinned into memory programmatically by a D-Bus call

#+end_quote

systemd will automatically and implicitly load units from disk --- if
they are not loaded yet --- as soon as operations are requested for
them. Thus, in many respects, the fact whether a unit is loaded or not
is invisible to clients. Use *systemctl list-units --all* to
comprehensively list all units currently loaded. Any unit for which none
of the conditions above applies is promptly unloaded. Note that when a
unit is unloaded from memory its accounting data is flushed out too.
However, this data is generally not lost, as a journal log record is
generated declaring the consumed resources whenever a unit shuts down.

Processes systemd spawns are placed in individual Linux control groups
named after the unit which they belong to in the private systemd
hierarchy. (see *Control Groups v2*[4] for more information about
control groups, or short "cgroups"). systemd uses this to effectively
keep track of processes. Control group information is maintained in the
kernel, and is accessible via the file system hierarchy (beneath
/sys/fs/cgroup/), or in tools such as *systemd-cgls*(1) or *ps*(1) (*ps
xawf -eo pid,user,cgroup,args* is particularly useful to list all
processes and the systemd units they belong to.).

systemd is compatible with the SysV init system to a large degree: SysV
init scripts are supported and simply read as an alternative (though
limited) configuration file format. The SysV /dev/initctl interface is
provided, and compatibility implementations of the various SysV client
tools are available. In addition to that, various established Unix
functionality such as /etc/fstab or the utmp database are supported.

systemd has a minimal transaction system: if a unit is requested to
start up or shut down it will add it and all its dependencies to a
temporary transaction. Then, it will verify if the transaction is
consistent (i.e. whether the ordering of all units is cycle-free). If it
is not, systemd will try to fix it up, and removes non-essential jobs
from the transaction that might remove the loop. Also, systemd tries to
suppress non-essential jobs in the transaction that would stop a running
service. Finally it is checked whether the jobs of the transaction
contradict jobs that have already been queued, and optionally the
transaction is aborted then. If all worked out and the transaction is
consistent and minimized in its impact it is merged with all already
outstanding jobs and added to the run queue. Effectively this means that
before executing a requested operation, systemd will verify that it
makes sense, fixing it if possible, and only failing if it really cannot
work.

Note that transactions are generated independently of a units state at
runtime, hence, for example, if a start job is requested on an already
started unit, it will still generate a transaction and wake up any
inactive dependencies (and cause propagation of other jobs as per the
defined relationships). This is because the enqueued job is at the time
of execution compared to the target units state and is marked successful
and complete when both satisfy. However, this job also pulls in other
dependencies due to the defined relationships and thus leads to, in our
example, start jobs for any of those inactive units getting queued as
well.

Units may be generated dynamically at boot and system manager reload
time, for example based on other configuration files or parameters
passed on the kernel command line. For details, see
*systemd.generator*(7).

* DIRECTORIES
System unit directories

#+begin_quote
The systemd system manager reads unit configuration from various
directories. Packages that want to install unit files shall place them
in the directory returned by *pkg-config systemd
--variable=systemdsystemunitdir*. Other directories checked are
/usr/local/lib/systemd/system and /usr/lib/systemd/system. User
configuration always takes precedence. *pkg-config systemd
--variable=systemdsystemconfdir* returns the path of the system
configuration directory. Packages should alter the content of these
directories only with the *enable* and *disable* commands of the
*systemctl*(1) tool. Full list of directories is provided in
*systemd.unit*(5).

#+end_quote

User unit directories

#+begin_quote
Similar rules apply for the user unit directories. However, here the
*XDG Base Directory specification*[5] is followed to find units.
Applications should place their unit files in the directory returned by
*pkg-config systemd --variable=systemduserunitdir*. Global configuration
is done in the directory reported by *pkg-config systemd
--variable=systemduserconfdir*. The *enable* and *disable* commands of
the *systemctl*(1) tool can handle both global (i.e. for all users) and
private (for one user) enabling/disabling of units. Full list of
directories is provided in *systemd.unit*(5).

#+end_quote

SysV init scripts directory

#+begin_quote
The location of the SysV init script directory varies between
distributions. If systemd cannot find a native unit file for a requested
service, it will look for a SysV init script of the same name (with the
.service suffix removed).

#+end_quote

SysV runlevel link farm directory

#+begin_quote
The location of the SysV runlevel link farm directory varies between
distributions. systemd will take the link farm into account when
figuring out whether a service shall be enabled. Note that a service
unit with a native unit configuration file cannot be started by
activating it in the SysV runlevel link farm.

#+end_quote

* SIGNALS
The service listens to various UNIX process signals that can be used to
request various actions asynchronously. The signal handling is enabled
very early during boot, before any further processes are invoked.
However, a supervising container manager or similar that intends to
request these operations via this mechanism must take into consideration
that this functionality is not available during the earliest
initialization phase. An *sd_notify()* notification message carrying the
/X_SYSTEMD_SIGNALS_LEVEL=2/ field is emitted once the signal handlers
are enabled, see below. This may be used to schedule submission of these
signals correctly.

*SIGTERM*

#+begin_quote
Upon receiving this signal the systemd system manager serializes its
state, reexecutes itself and deserializes the saved state again. This is
mostly equivalent to *systemctl daemon-reexec*.

systemd user managers will start the exit.target unit when this signal
is received. This is mostly equivalent to *systemctl --user start
exit.target --job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

#+end_quote

*SIGINT*

#+begin_quote
Upon receiving this signal the systemd system manager will start the
ctrl-alt-del.target unit. This is mostly equivalent to *systemctl start
ctrl-alt-del.target --job-mode=replace-irreversibly*. If this signal is
received more than 7 times per 2s, an immediate reboot is triggered.
Note that pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del on the console will trigger this signal.
Hence, if a reboot is hanging, pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del more than 7 times
in 2 seconds is a relatively safe way to trigger an immediate reboot.

systemd user managers treat this signal the same way as *SIGTERM*.

#+end_quote

*SIGWINCH*

#+begin_quote
When this signal is received the systemd system manager will start the
kbrequest.target unit. This is mostly equivalent to *systemctl start
kbrequest.target*.

This signal is ignored by systemd user managers.

#+end_quote

*SIGPWR*

#+begin_quote
When this signal is received the systemd manager will start the
sigpwr.target unit. This is mostly equivalent to *systemctl start
sigpwr.target*.

#+end_quote

*SIGUSR1*

#+begin_quote
When this signal is received the systemd manager will try to reconnect
to the D-Bus bus.

#+end_quote

*SIGUSR2*

#+begin_quote
When this signal is received the systemd manager will log its complete
state in human-readable form. The data logged is the same as printed by
*systemd-analyze dump*.

#+end_quote

*SIGHUP*

#+begin_quote
Reloads the complete daemon configuration. This is mostly equivalent to
*systemctl daemon-reload*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+0*

#+begin_quote
Enters default mode, starts the default.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl isolate default.target*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+1*

#+begin_quote
Enters rescue mode, starts the rescue.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl isolate rescue.target*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+2*

#+begin_quote
Enters emergency mode, starts the emergency.service unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl isolate emergency.service*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+3*

#+begin_quote
Halts the machine, starts the halt.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl start halt.target
--job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+4*

#+begin_quote
Powers off the machine, starts the poweroff.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl start poweroff.target
--job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+5*

#+begin_quote
Reboots the machine, starts the reboot.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl start reboot.target
--job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+6*

#+begin_quote
Reboots the machine via kexec, starts the kexec.target unit. This is
mostly equivalent to *systemctl start kexec.target
--job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+7*

#+begin_quote
Reboots userspace, starts the soft-reboot.target unit. This is mostly
equivalent to *systemctl start soft-reboot.target
--job-mode=replace-irreversibly*.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+13*

#+begin_quote
Immediately halts the machine.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+14*

#+begin_quote
Immediately powers off the machine.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+15*

#+begin_quote
Immediately reboots the machine.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+16*

#+begin_quote
Immediately reboots the machine with kexec.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+17*

#+begin_quote
Immediately reboots the userspace.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+20*

#+begin_quote
Enables display of status messages on the console, as controlled via
/systemd.show_status=1/ on the kernel command line.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+21*

#+begin_quote
Disables display of status messages on the console, as controlled via
/systemd.show_status=0/ on the kernel command line.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+22*

#+begin_quote
Sets the service managers log level to "debug", in a fashion equivalent
to /systemd.log_level=debug/ on the kernel command line.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+23*

#+begin_quote
Restores the log level to its configured value. The configured value is
derived from -- in order of priority -- the value specified with
/systemd.log-level=/ on the kernel command line, or the value specified
with *LogLevel=* in the configuration file, or the built-in default of
"info".

Added in version 239.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+24*

#+begin_quote
Immediately exits the manager (only available for --user instances).

Added in version 195.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+25*

#+begin_quote
Upon receiving this signal the systemd manager will reexecute itself.
This is mostly equivalent to *systemctl daemon-reexec* except that it
will be done asynchronously.

The systemd system manager treats this signal the same way as *SIGTERM*.

Added in version 250.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+26*

#+begin_quote
Restores the log target to its configured value. The configured value is
derived from -- in order of priority -- the value specified with
/systemd.log-target=/ on the kernel command line, or the value specified
with *LogTarget=* in the configuration file, or the built-in default.

Added in version 239.

#+end_quote

*SIGRTMIN+27*, *SIGRTMIN+28*

#+begin_quote
Sets the log target to "console" on *SIGRTMIN+27* (or "kmsg" on
*SIGRTMIN+28*), in a fashion equivalent to /systemd.log_target=console/
(or /systemd.log_target=kmsg/ on *SIGRTMIN+28*) on the kernel command
line.

Added in version 239.

#+end_quote

* ENVIRONMENT
The environment block for the system manager is initially set by the
kernel. (In particular, "key=value" assignments on the kernel command
line are turned into environment variables for PID 1). For the user
manager, the system manager sets the environment as described in the
"Environment Variables in Spawned Processes" section of
*systemd.exec*(5). The /DefaultEnvironment=/ setting in the system
manager applies to all services including user@.service. Additional
entries may be configured (as for any other service) through the
/Environment=/ and /EnvironmentFile=/ settings for user@.service (see
*systemd.exec*(5)). Also, additional environment variables may be set
through the /ManagerEnvironment=/ setting in *systemd-system.conf*(5)
and *systemd-user.conf*(5).

Some of the variables understood by *systemd*:

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/

#+begin_quote
The maximum log level of emitted messages (messages with a higher log
level, i.e. less important ones, will be suppressed). Takes a
comma-separated list of values. A value may be either one of (in order
of decreasing importance) *emerg*, *alert*, *crit*, *err*, *warning*,
*notice*, *info*, *debug*, or an integer in the range 0...7. See
*syslog*(3) for more information. Each value may optionally be prefixed
with one of *console*, *syslog*, *kmsg* or *journal* followed by a colon
to set the maximum log level for that specific log target (e.g.
*SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info* specifies to log at debug level
except when logging to the console which should be at info level). Note
that the global maximum log level takes priority over any per target
maximum log levels.

This can be overridden with *--log-level=*.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages written to the tty will be colored
according to priority.

This can be overridden with *--log-color=*.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, console log messages will be prefixed with a
timestamp.

This can be overridden with *--log-time=*.

Added in version 246.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line
number in the source code where the message originates.

This can be overridden with *--log-location=*.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TID/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with the current numerical
thread ID (TID).

Added in version 247.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/

#+begin_quote
The destination for log messages. One of *console* (log to the attached
tty), *console-prefixed* (log to the attached tty but with prefixes
encoding the log level and "facility", see *syslog*(3), *kmsg* (log to
the kernel circular log buffer), *journal* (log to the journal),
*journal-or-kmsg* (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), *auto* (determine the appropriate log target automatically,
the default), *null* (disable log output).

This can be overridden with *--log-target=*.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG/

#+begin_quote
Whether to ratelimit kmsg or not. Takes a boolean. Defaults to "true".
If disabled, systemd will not ratelimit messages written to kmsg.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

/$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/, /$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/, /$XDG_DATA_HOME/,
/$XDG_DATA_DIRS/

#+begin_quote
The systemd user manager uses these variables in accordance to the *XDG
Base Directory specification*[5] to find its configuration.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_UNIT_PATH/, /$SYSTEMD_GENERATOR_PATH/,
/$SYSTEMD_ENVIRONMENT_GENERATOR_PATH/

#+begin_quote
Controls where systemd looks for unit files and generators.

These variables may contain a list of paths, separated by colons (":").
When set, if the list ends with an empty component ("...:"), this list
is prepended to the usual set of paths. Otherwise, the specified list
replaces the usual set of paths.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGER/

#+begin_quote
Pager to use when *--no-pager* is not given; overrides /$PAGER/. If
neither /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ nor /$PAGER/ are set, a set of well-known pager
implementations are tried in turn, including *less*(1) and *more*(1),
until one is found. If no pager implementation is discovered no pager is
invoked. Setting this environment variable to an empty string or the
value "cat" is equivalent to passing *--no-pager*.

Note: if /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set, /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ (as well as
/$PAGER/) will be silently ignored.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESS/

#+begin_quote
Override the options passed to *less* (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular:

*K*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is
pressed. To allow *less* to handle Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the
pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of /$SYSTEMD_LESS/ does not include "K", and the pager that
is invoked is *less*, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and
needs to be handled by the pager.

#+end_quote

*X*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to not send termcap initialization and
deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by default to allow
command output to remain visible in the terminal even after the pager
exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

#+end_quote

Note that setting the regular /$LESS/ environment variable has no effect
for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

See *less*(1) for more discussion.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET/

#+begin_quote
Override the charset passed to *less* (by default "utf-8", if the
invoking terminal is determined to be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular /$LESSCHARSET/ environment variable has no
effect for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, the "secure" mode of the pager is
enabled; if false, disabled. If /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at
all, secure mode is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the
owner of the login session, see *geteuid*(2) and
*sd_pid_get_owner_uid*(3). In secure mode, *LESSSECURE=1* will be set
when invoking the pager, and the pager shall disable commands that open
or create new files or start new subprocesses. When
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at all, pagers which are not known to
implement secure mode will not be used. (Currently only *less*(1)
implements secure mode.)

Note: when commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for example
under *sudo*(8) or *pkexec*(1), care must be taken to ensure that
unintended interactive features are not enabled. "Secure" mode for the
pager may be enabled automatically as describe above. Setting
/SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0/ or not removing it from the inherited
environment allows the user to invoke arbitrary commands. Note that if
the /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ or /$PAGER/ variables are to be honoured,
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ must be set too. It might be reasonable to
completely disable the pager using *--no-pager* instead.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_COLORS/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, *systemd* and related utilities
will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following
special values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16
or 256 ANSI colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the
automatic decision based on /$TERM/ and what the console is connected
to.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_URLIFY/

#+begin_quote
The value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be
generated in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can
be specified to override the decision that *systemd* makes based on
/$TERM/ and other conditions.

#+end_quote

/$LISTEN_PID/, /$LISTEN_FDS/, /$LISTEN_FDNAMES/

#+begin_quote
Set by systemd for supervised processes during socket-based activation.
See *sd_listen_fds*(3) for more information.

#+end_quote

/$NOTIFY_SOCKET/

#+begin_quote
Set by service manager for its services for status and readiness
notifications. Also consumed by service manager for notifying
supervising container managers or service managers up the stack about
its own progress. See *sd_notify*(3) and the relevant section below for
more information.

#+end_quote

For further environment variables understood by systemd and its various
components, see *Known Environment Variables*[6].

* KERNEL COMMAND LINE
When run as the system instance, systemd parses a number of options
listed below. They can be specified as kernel command line arguments
which are parsed from a number of sources depending on the environment
in which systemd is executed. If run inside a Linux container, these
options are parsed from the command line arguments passed to systemd
itself, next to any of the command line options listed in the Options
section above. If run outside of Linux containers, these arguments are
parsed from /proc/cmdline and from the "SystemdOptions" EFI variable (on
EFI systems) instead. Options from /proc/cmdline have higher priority.

Note: use of "SystemdOptions" is deprecated.

The following variables are understood:

/systemd.unit=/, /rd.systemd.unit=/

#+begin_quote
Overrides the unit to activate on boot. Defaults to default.target. This
may be used to temporarily boot into a different boot unit, for example
rescue.target or emergency.service. See *systemd.special*(7) for details
about these units. The option prefixed with "rd." is honored only in the
initrd, while the one that is not prefixed only in the main system.

#+end_quote

/systemd.dump_core/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument or enables the option if specified without an
argument. If enabled, the systemd manager (PID 1) dumps core when it
crashes. Otherwise, no core dump is created. Defaults to enabled.

Added in version 233.

#+end_quote

/systemd.crash_chvt/

#+begin_quote
Takes a positive integer, or a boolean argument. Can be also specified
without an argument, with the same effect as a positive boolean. If a
positive integer (in the range 1--63) is specified, the system manager
(PID 1) will activate the specified virtual terminal when it crashes.
Defaults to disabled, meaning that no such switch is attempted. If set
to enabled, the virtual terminal the kernel messages are written to is
used instead.

Added in version 233.

#+end_quote

/systemd.crash_shell/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument or enables the option if specified without an
argument. If enabled, the system manager (PID 1) spawns a shell when it
crashes, after a 10s delay. Otherwise, no shell is spawned. Defaults to
disabled, for security reasons, as the shell is not protected by
password authentication.

Added in version 233.

#+end_quote

/systemd.crash_action=/

#+begin_quote
Takes one of "freeze", "reboot" or "poweroff". Defaults to "freeze". If
set to "freeze", the system will hang indefinitely when the system
manager (PID 1) crashes. If set to "reboot", the system manager (PID 1)
will reboot the machine automatically when it crashes, after a 10s
delay. If set to "poweroff", the system manager (PID 1) will power off
the machine immediately when it crashes. If combined with
/systemd.crash_shell/, the configured crash action is executed after the
shell exits.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

/systemd.confirm_spawn/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument or a path to the virtual console where the
confirmation messages should be emitted. Can be also specified without
an argument, with the same effect as a positive boolean. If enabled, the
system manager (PID 1) asks for confirmation when spawning processes
using */dev/console*. If a path or a console name (such as "ttyS0") is
provided, the virtual console pointed to by this path or described by
the give name will be used instead. Defaults to disabled.

Added in version 233.

#+end_quote

/systemd.service_watchdogs=/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. If disabled, all service runtime watchdogs
(*WatchdogSec=*) and emergency actions (e.g. *OnFailure=* or
*StartLimitAction=*) are ignored by the system manager (PID 1); see
*systemd.service*(5). Defaults to enabled, i.e. watchdogs and failure
actions are processed normally. The hardware watchdog is not affected by
this option.

Added in version 237.

#+end_quote

/systemd.show_status/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument or the constants *error* and *auto*. Can be
also specified without an argument, with the same effect as a positive
boolean. If enabled, the systemd manager (PID 1) shows terse service
status updates on the console during bootup. With *error*, only messages
about failures are shown, but boot is otherwise quiet. *auto* behaves
like *false* until there is a significant delay in boot. Defaults to
enabled, unless *quiet* is passed as kernel command line option, in
which case it defaults to *error*. If specified overrides the system
manager configuration file option *ShowStatus=*, see
*systemd-system.conf*(5).

Added in version 233.

#+end_quote

/systemd.status_unit_format=/

#+begin_quote
Takes *name*, *description* or *combined* as the value. If *name*, the
system manager will use unit names in status messages. If *combined*,
the system manager will use unit names and description in status
messages. When specified, overrides the system manager configuration
file option *StatusUnitFormat=*, see *systemd-system.conf*(5).

Added in version 243.

#+end_quote

/systemd.log_color/, /systemd.log_level=/, /systemd.log_location/,
/systemd.log_target=/, /systemd.log_time/, /systemd.log_tid/,
/systemd.log_ratelimit_kmsg/

#+begin_quote
Controls log output, with the same effect as the /$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/,
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/,
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/, /$SYSTEMD_LOG_TID/ and
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG/ environment variables described above.
/systemd.log_color/, /systemd.log_location/, /systemd.log_time/,
/systemd.log_tid/ and /systemd.log_ratelimit_kmsg/ can be specified
without an argument, with the same effect as a positive boolean.

#+end_quote

/systemd.default_standard_output=/, /systemd.default_standard_error=/

#+begin_quote
Controls default standard output and error output for services and
sockets. That is, controls the default for *StandardOutput=* and
*StandardError=* (see *systemd.exec*(5) for details). Takes one of
*inherit*, *null*, *tty*, *journal*, *journal+console*, *kmsg*,
*kmsg+console*. If the argument is omitted
/systemd.default-standard-output=/ defaults to *journal* and
/systemd.default-standard-error=/ to *inherit*.

#+end_quote

/systemd.setenv=/

#+begin_quote
Takes a string argument in the form VARIABLE=VALUE. May be used to set
default environment variables to add to forked child processes. May be
used more than once to set multiple variables.

#+end_quote

/systemd.machine_id=/

#+begin_quote
Takes a 32 character hex value to be used for setting the machine-id.
Intended mostly for network booting where the same machine-id is desired
for every boot.

Added in version 229.

#+end_quote

/systemd.set_credential=/, /systemd.set_credential_binary=/

#+begin_quote
Sets a system credential, which can then be propagated to system
services using the /ImportCredential=/ or /LoadCredential=/ setting, see
*systemd.exec*(5) for details. Takes a pair of credential name and
value, separated by a colon. The /systemd.set_credential=/ parameter
expects the credential value in literal text form, the
/systemd.set_credential_binary=/ parameter takes binary data encoded in
Base64. Note that the kernel command line is typically accessible by
unprivileged programs in /proc/cmdline. Thus, this mechanism is not
suitable for transferring sensitive data. Use it only for data that is
not sensitive (e.g. public keys/certificates, rather than private keys),
or in testing/debugging environments.

For further information see *System and Service Credentials*[7]
documentation.

Added in version 251.

#+end_quote

/systemd.import_credentials=/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. If false disables importing credentials from
the kernel command line, the DMI/SMBIOS OEM string table, the
qemu_fw_cfg subsystem or the EFI kernel stub.

Added in version 251.

#+end_quote

/quiet/

#+begin_quote
Turn off status output at boot, much like /systemd.show_status=no/
would. Note that this option is also read by the kernel itself and
disables kernel log output. Passing this option hence turns off the
usual output from both the system manager and the kernel.

Added in version 186.

#+end_quote

/debug/

#+begin_quote
Turn on debugging output. This is equivalent to
/systemd.log_level=debug/. Note that this option is also read by the
kernel itself and enables kernel debug output. Passing this option hence
turns on the debug output from both the system manager and the kernel.

Added in version 205.

#+end_quote

/emergency/, /rd.emergency/, /-b/

#+begin_quote
Boot into emergency mode. This is equivalent to
/systemd.unit=emergency.target/ or /rd.systemd.unit=emergency.target/,
respectively, and provided for compatibility reasons and to be easier to
type.

Added in version 186.

#+end_quote

/rescue/, /rd.rescue/, /single/, /s/, /S/, /1/

#+begin_quote
Boot into rescue mode. This is equivalent to
/systemd.unit=rescue.target/ or /rd.systemd.unit=rescue.target/,
respectively, and provided for compatibility reasons and to be easier to
type.

Added in version 186.

#+end_quote

/2/, /3/, /4/, /5/

#+begin_quote
Boot into the specified legacy SysV runlevel. These are equivalent to
/systemd.unit=runlevel2.target/, /systemd.unit=runlevel3.target/,
/systemd.unit=runlevel4.target/, and /systemd.unit=runlevel5.target/,
respectively, and provided for compatibility reasons and to be easier to
type.

Added in version 186.

#+end_quote

/locale.LANG=/, /locale.LANGUAGE=/, /locale.LC_CTYPE=/,
/locale.LC_NUMERIC=/, /locale.LC_TIME=/, /locale.LC_COLLATE=/,
/locale.LC_MONETARY=/, /locale.LC_MESSAGES=/, /locale.LC_PAPER=/,
/locale.LC_NAME=/, /locale.LC_ADDRESS=/, /locale.LC_TELEPHONE=/,
/locale.LC_MEASUREMENT=/, /locale.LC_IDENTIFICATION=/

#+begin_quote
Set the system locale to use. This overrides the settings in
/etc/locale.conf. For more information, see *locale.conf*(5) and
*locale*(7).

Added in version 186.

#+end_quote

For other kernel command line parameters understood by components of the
core OS, please refer to *kernel-command-line*(7).

* SYSTEM CREDENTIALS
During initialization the service manager will import credentials from
various sources into the systems set of credentials, which can then be
propagated into services and consumed by generators:

#+begin_quote
·

When the service manager first initializes it will read system
credentials from SMBIOS Type 11 vendor strings
/io.systemd.credential:name=value/, and
/io.systemd.credential.binary:name=value/.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

At the same time it will import credentials from QEMU "fw_cfg". (Note
that the SMBIOS mechanism is generally preferred, because it is faster
and generic.)

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Credentials may be passed via the kernel command line, using the
/systemd.set-credential=/ parameter, see above.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Credentials may be passed from the UEFI environment via
*systemd-stub*(7).

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

When the service manager is invoked during the initrd → host transition
it will import all files in /run/credentials/@initrd/ as system
credentials.

#+end_quote

Invoke *systemd-creds*(1) as follows to see the list of credentials
passed into the system:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
# systemd-creds --system list
#+end_example

#+end_quote

For further information see *System and Service Credentials*[7]
documentation.

The service manager when run as PID 1 consumes the following system
credentials:

/vmm.notify_socket/

#+begin_quote
Contains a *AF_VSOCK* or *AF_UNIX* address where to send a *READY=1*
notification message when the service manager has completed booting. See
*sd_notify*(3) and the next section for more information. Note that in
case the hypervisor does not support *SOCK_DGRAM* over *AF_VSOCK*,
*SOCK_SEQPACKET* will be tried instead. The credential payload for
*AF_VSOCK* should be a string in the form "vsock:CID:PORT".
"vsock-stream", "vsock-dgram" and "vsock-seqpacket" can be used instead
of "vsock" to force usage of the corresponding socket type.

This feature is useful for machine managers or other processes on the
host to receive a notification via VSOCK when a virtual machine has
finished booting.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

/system.machine_id/

#+begin_quote
Takes a 128bit hexadecimal ID to initialize /etc/machine-id from, if the
file is not set up yet. See *machine-id*(5) for details.

Added in version 254.

#+end_quote

For a list of system credentials various other components of systemd
consume, see *systemd.system-credentials*(7).

* READINESS PROTOCOL
The service manager implements a readiness notification protocol both
between the manager and its services (i.e. down the stack), and between
the manager and a potential supervisor further up the stack (the latter
could be a machine or container manager, or in case of a per-user
service manager the system service manager instance). The basic protocol
(and the suggested API for it) is described in *sd_notify*(3).

The notification socket the service manager (including PID 1) uses for
reporting readiness to its own supervisor is set via the usual
/$NOTIFY_SOCKET/ environment variable (see above). Since this is
directly settable only for container managers and for the per-user
instance of the service manager, an additional mechanism to configure
this is available, in particular intended for use in VM environments:
the /vmm.notify_socket/ system credential (see above) may be set to a
suitable socket (typically an *AF_VSOCK* one) via SMBIOS Type 11 vendor
strings. For details see above.

The notification protocol from the service manager up the stack towards
a supervisor supports a number of extension fields that allow a
supervisor to learn about specific properties of the system and track
its boot progress. Specifically the following fields are sent:

#+begin_quote
·

An /X_SYSTEMD_HOSTNAME=.../ message will be sent out once the initial
hostname for the system has been determined. Note that during later
runtime the hostname might be changed again programmatically, and
(currently) no further notifications are sent out in that case.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

An /X_SYSTEMD_MACHINE_ID=.../ message will be sent out once the machine
ID of the system has been determined. See *machine-id*(5) for details.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

An /X_SYSTEMD_SIGNALS_LEVEL=.../ message will be sent out once the
service manager installed the various UNIX process signal handlers
described above. The fields value is an unsigned integer formatted as
decimal string, and indicates the supported UNIX process signal feature
level of the service manager. Currently, only a single feature level is
defined:

#+begin_quote
·

/X_SYSTEMD_SIGNALS_LEVEL=2/ covers the various UNIX process signals
documented above -- which are a superset of those supported by the
historical SysV init system.

#+end_quote

Signals sent to PID 1 before this message is sent might not be handled
correctly yet. A consumer of these messages should parse the value as an
unsigned integer indication the level of support. For now only the
mentioned level 2 is defined, but later on additional levels might be
defined with higher integers, that will implement a superset of the
currently defined behaviour.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

/X_SYSTEMD_UNIT_ACTIVE=.../ and /X_SYSTEMD_UNIT_INACTIVE=.../ messages
will be sent out for each target unit as it becomes active or stops
being active. This is useful to track boot progress and functionality.
For example, once the ssh-access.target unit is reported started SSH
access is typically available, see *systemd.special*(7) for details.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

An /X_SYSTEMD_SHUTDOWN=.../ message will be sent out very shortly before
the system shuts down. The value is one of the strings "reboot", "halt",
"poweroff", "kexec" and indicates which kind of shutdown is being
executed.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

An /X_SYSTEMD_REBOOT_PARAMETER=.../ message will also be sent out very
shortly before the system shuts down. Its value is the reboot argument
as configured with *systemctl --reboot-argument=...*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

Note that these extension fields are sent in addition to the regular
"READY=1" and "RELOADING=1" notifications.

* OPTIONS
*systemd* is only very rarely invoked directly, since it is started
early and is already running by the time users may interact with it.
Normally, tools like *systemctl*(1) are used to give commands to the
manager. Since *systemd* is usually not invoked directly, the options
listed below are mostly useful for debugging and special purposes.

** Introspection and debugging options
Those options are used for testing and introspection, and *systemd* may
be invoked with them at any time:

*--dump-configuration-items*

#+begin_quote
Dump understood unit configuration items. This outputs a terse but
complete list of configuration items understood in unit definition
files.

#+end_quote

*--dump-bus-properties*

#+begin_quote
Dump exposed bus properties. This outputs a terse but complete list of
properties exposed on D-Bus.

Added in version 239.

#+end_quote

*--test*

#+begin_quote
Determine the initial start-up transaction (i.e. the list of jobs
enqueued at start-up), dump it and exit --- without actually executing
any of the determined jobs. This option is useful for debugging only.
Note that during regular service manager start-up additional units not
shown by this operation may be started, because hardware, socket, bus or
other kinds of activation might add additional jobs as the transaction
is executed. Use *--system* to request the initial transaction of the
system service manager (this is also the implied default), combine with
*--user* to request the initial transaction of the per-user service
manager instead.

#+end_quote

*--system*, *--user*

#+begin_quote
When used in conjunction with *--test*, selects whether to calculate the
initial transaction for the system instance or for a per-user instance.
These options have no effect when invoked without *--test*, as during
regular (i.e. non-*--test*) invocations the service manager will
automatically detect whether it shall operate in system or per-user
mode, by checking whether the PID it is run as is 1 or not. Note that it
is not supported booting and maintaining a system with the service
manager running in *--system* mode but with a PID other than 1.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

** Options that duplicate kernel command line settings
Those options correspond directly to options listed above in "Kernel
Command Line". Both forms may be used equivalently for the system
manager, but it is recommended to use the forms listed above in this
context, because they are properly namespaced. When an option is
specified both on the kernel command line and as a normal command line
argument, the latter has higher precedence.

When *systemd* is used as a user manager, the kernel command line is
ignored and only the options described below are understood.
Nevertheless, *systemd* is usually started in this mode through the
*user@.service*(5) service, which is shared between all users. It may be
more convenient to use configuration files to modify settings (see
*systemd-user.conf*(5)), or environment variables. See the "Environment"
section above for a discussion of how the environment block is set.

*--unit=*

#+begin_quote
Set default unit to activate on startup. If not specified, defaults to
default.target. See /systemd.unit=/ above.

#+end_quote

*--dump-core*

#+begin_quote
Enable core dumping on crash. This switch has no effect when running as
user instance. Same as /systemd.dump_core=/ above.

#+end_quote

*--crash-vt=*/VT/

#+begin_quote
Switch to a specific virtual console (VT) on crash. This switch has no
effect when running as user instance. Same as /systemd.crash_chvt=/
above (but not the different spelling!).

Added in version 227.

#+end_quote

*--crash-shell*

#+begin_quote
Run a shell on crash. This switch has no effect when running as user
instance. See /systemd.crash_shell=/ above.

#+end_quote

*--crash-action=*

#+begin_quote
Specify what to do when the system manager (PID 1) crashes. This switch
has no effect when systemd is running as user instance. See
/systemd.crash_action=/ above.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--confirm-spawn*

#+begin_quote
Ask for confirmation when spawning processes. This switch has no effect
when run as user instance. See /systemd.confirm_spawn/ above.

#+end_quote

*--show-status*

#+begin_quote
Show terse unit status information on the console during boot-up and
shutdown. See /systemd.show_status/ above.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*--log-color*

#+begin_quote
Highlight important log messages. See /systemd.log_color/ above.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*--log-level=*

#+begin_quote
Set log level. See /systemd.log_level/ above.

#+end_quote

*--log-location*

#+begin_quote
Include code location in log messages. See /systemd.log_location/ above.

Added in version 244.

#+end_quote

*--log-target=*

#+begin_quote
Set log target. See /systemd.log_target/ above.

#+end_quote

*--log-time=*

#+begin_quote
Prefix console messages with timestamp. See /systemd.log_time/ above.

Added in version 246.

#+end_quote

*--machine-id=*

#+begin_quote
Override the machine-id set on the hard drive. See /systemd.machine_id=/
above.

Added in version 229.

#+end_quote

*--service-watchdogs*

#+begin_quote
Globally enable/disable all service watchdog timeouts and emergency
actions. See /systemd.service_watchdogs/ above.

Added in version 237.

#+end_quote

*--default-standard-output=*, *--default-standard-error=*

#+begin_quote
Sets the default output or error output for all services and sockets,
respectively. See /systemd.default_standard_output=/ and
/systemd.default_standard_error=/ above.

#+end_quote

* SOCKETS AND FIFOS
/run/systemd/notify

#+begin_quote
Daemon status notification socket. This is an *AF_UNIX* datagram socket
and is used to implement the daemon notification logic as implemented by
*sd_notify*(3).

#+end_quote

/run/systemd/private

#+begin_quote
Used internally as communication channel between *systemctl*(1) and the
systemd process. This is an *AF_UNIX* stream socket. This interface is
private to systemd and should not be used in external projects.

#+end_quote

/dev/initctl

#+begin_quote
Limited compatibility support for the SysV client interface, as
implemented by the systemd-initctl.service unit. This is a named pipe in
the file system. This interface is obsolete and should not be used in
new applications.

#+end_quote

* HISTORY
systemd 252

#+begin_quote
Kernel command-line arguments /systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy/ and
/systemd.legacy_systemd_cgroup_controller/ were deprecated. Please
switch to the unified cgroup hierarchy.

Added in version 252.

#+end_quote

* SEE ALSO
The *systemd Homepage*[8], *systemd-system.conf*(5), *locale.conf*(5),
*systemctl*(1), *journalctl*(1), *systemd-notify*(1), *daemon*(7),
*sd-daemon*(3), *org.freedesktop.systemd1*(5), *systemd.unit*(5),
*systemd.special*(7), *pkg-config*(1), *kernel-command-line*(7),
*bootup*(7), *systemd.directives*(7)

For more information about the concepts and ideas behind systemd, please
refer to the *Original Design Document*[9].

* NOTES
-  1. :: Interface Portability and Stability Promise

  https://systemd.io/PORTABILITY_AND_STABILITY/

-  2. :: Container Interface

  https://systemd.io/CONTAINER_INTERFACE

-  3. :: initrd Interface

  https://systemd.io/INITRD_INTERFACE/

-  4. :: Control Groups v2

  https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/cgroup-v2.html

-  5. :: XDG Base Directory specification

  https://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html

-  6. :: Known Environment Variables

  https://systemd.io/ENVIRONMENT

-  7. :: System and Service Credentials

  https://systemd.io/CREDENTIALS

-  8. :: systemd Homepage

  https://systemd.io/

-  9. :: Original Design Document

  https://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd.html
