#+TITLE: Manpages - systemd-vmspawn.1
* NAME
systemd-vmspawn - Spawn an OS in a virtual machine

* SYNOPSIS
*systemd-vmspawn* [OPTIONS...] [ARGS...]

* DESCRIPTION
*systemd-vmspawn* may be used to start a virtual machine from an OS
image. In many ways it is similar to *systemd-nspawn*(1), but launches a
full virtual machine instead of using namespaces.

File descriptors for /dev/kvm and /dev/vhost-vsock can be passed to
*systemd-vmspawn* via systemds native socket passing interface (see
*sd_listen_fds*(3) for details about the precise protocol used and the
order in which the file descriptors are passed), these file descriptors
must be passed with the names "kvm" and "vhost-vsock" respectively.

Note: on Ubuntu/Debian derivatives systemd-vmspawn requires the user to
be in the "kvm" group to use the VSOCK options.

* OPTIONS
The excess arguments are passed as extra kernel command line arguments
using SMBIOS.

The following options are understood:

*-q*, *--quiet*

#+begin_quote
Turns off any status output by the tool itself. When this switch is
used, the only output from vmspawn will be the console output of the
Virtual Machine OS itself.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Image Options
*-D*, *--directory=*

#+begin_quote
Directory to use as file system root for the virtual machine.

One of either *--directory=* or *--image=* must be specified. If neither
are specified *--directory=.* is assumed.

Note: If mounting a non-root owned directory you may require
*--private-users=* to map into the users subuid namespace. An example of
how to use */etc/subuid* for this is given later.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-i*, *--image=*

#+begin_quote
Root file system disk image (or device node) for the virtual machine.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

** Host Configuration
*--cpus=*/CPUS/

#+begin_quote
The number of CPUs to start the virtual machine with. Defaults to 1.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--ram=*/BYTES/

#+begin_quote
The amount of memory to start the virtual machine with. Defaults to 2G.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--kvm=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
If *--kvm=* is not specified KVM support will be detected automatically.
If true, KVM is always used, and if false, KVM is never used.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--vsock=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
If *--vsock=* is not specified VSOCK networking support will be detected
automatically. If true, VSOCK networking is always used, and if false,
VSOCK networking is never used.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--vsock-cid=*/CID/

#+begin_quote
Sets the specific CID to use for the guest. Valid CIDs are in the range
*3* to *4294967294* (*0xFFFF_FFFE*). CIDs outside of this range are
reserved. By default vmspawn will attempt to derive a CID for the guest
derived from the machine name, falling back to a random CID if this CID
is taken.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--tpm=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
If *--tpm=* is not specified vmspawn will detect the presence of
*swtpm*(8) and use it if available. If yes is specified *swtpm*(8) is
always used, and if no is set *swtpm*(8) is never used.

Note: the virtual TPM used may change in future.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--linux=*/PATH/

#+begin_quote
Set the linux kernel image to use for direct kernel boot. If a directory
type image is used and *--linux=* was omitted, vmspawn will search for
boot loader entries according to the *Boot Loader Specification*[1]
assuming XBOOTLDR to be located at /boot and ESP to be /efi
respectively. If no kernel was installed into the image then the image
will fail to boot.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--initrd=*/PATH/

#+begin_quote
Set the initrd to use for direct kernel boot. If the *--linux=* supplied
is a *Boot Loader Specification*[1] Type #2 entry, then this argument is
not required. If no initrd was installed into the image then the image
will fail to boot.

*--initrd=* can be specified multiple times and vmspawn will merge them
together.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*-n*, *--network-tap*

#+begin_quote
Create a TAP device to network with the virtual machine.

Note: root privileges are required to use TAP networking. Additionally,
*systemd-networkd*(8) must be running and correctly set up on the host
to provision the host interface. The relevant ".network" file can be
found at /usr/lib/systemd/network/80-vm-vt.network.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--network-user-mode*

#+begin_quote
Use user mode networking.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--firmware=*/PATH/

#+begin_quote
Takes an absolute path, or a relative path beginning with ./. Specifies
a JSON firmware definition file, which allows selecting the firmware to
boot in the VM. If not specified a suitable firmware is automatically
discovered. If the special string "list" is specified lists all
discovered firmwares.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--discard-disk=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
Controls whether qemu processes discard requests from the VM. This
prevents long running VMs from using more disk space than required. This
is enabled by default.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--secure-boot=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
Configure whether to search for firmware which supports Secure Boot.

If the option is not specified the first firmware which is detected will
be used. If the option is set to yes then the first firmware with Secure
Boot support will be selected. If no is specified then the first
firmware without Secure Boot will be selected.

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

** System Identity Options
*-M*, *--machine=*

#+begin_quote
Sets the machine name for this virtual machine. This name may be used to
identify this virtual machine during its runtime (for example in tools
like *machinectl*(1) and similar).

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

*--uuid=*

#+begin_quote
Set the specified UUID for the virtual machine. The init system will
initialize /etc/machine-id from this if this file is not set yet. Note
that this option takes effect only if /etc/machine-id in the virtual
machine is unpopulated.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Property Options
*--register=*

#+begin_quote
Controls whether the virtual machine is registered with
*systemd-machined*(8). Takes a boolean argument, which defaults to "yes"
when running as root, and "no" when running as a regular user. This
ensures that the virtual machine is accessible via *machinectl*(1).

Note: root privileges are required to use this option as registering
with *systemd-machined*(8) requires privileged D-Bus method calls.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** User Namespacing Options
*--private-users=*/UID_SHIFT[:UID_RANGE]/

#+begin_quote
Controls user namespacing under *--directory=*. If enabled,
*virtiofsd*(1) is instructed to map user and group ids (UIDs and GIDs).
This involves mapping the private UIDs/GIDs used in the virtual machine
(starting with the virtual machines root user 0 and up) to a range of
UIDs/GIDs on the host that are not used for other purposes (usually in
the range beyond the hosts UID/GID 65536).

If one or two colon-separated numbers are specified, user namespacing is
turned on. /UID_SHIFT/ specifies the first host UID/GID to map,
/UID_RANGE/ is optional and specifies number of host UIDs/GIDs to assign
to the virtual machine. If /UID_RANGE/ is omitted, 65536 UIDs/GIDs are
assigned.

When user namespaces are used, the GID range assigned to each virtual
machine is always chosen identical to the UID range.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Mount Options
*--bind=*/PATH/, *--bind-ro=*/PATH/

#+begin_quote
Mount a directory from the host into the virtual machine. Takes one of:
a path argument --- in which case the specified path will be mounted
from the host to the same path in the virtual machine, or a
colon-separated pair of paths --- in which case the first specified path
is the source in the host, and the second path is the destination in the
virtual machine. If the source path is not absolute, it is resolved
relative to the current working directory. The *--bind-ro=* option
creates read-only bind mounts. Backslash escapes are interpreted, so
"\:" may be used to embed colons in either path. This option may be
specified multiple times for creating multiple independent bind mount
points.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--extra-drive=*/PATH/

#+begin_quote
Takes a disk image or block device on the host and supplies it to the
virtual machine as another drive.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Integration Options
*--forward-journal=*/FILE|DIR/

#+begin_quote
Forward the virtual machines journal to the host.
*systemd-journal-remote*(8) is currently used to receive the guest VMs
forwarded journal entries. This option determines where this journal is
saved on the host and has the same semantics as *-o*/*--output*
described in *systemd-journal-remote*(8).

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--pass-ssh-key=*/BOOL/

#+begin_quote
By default an SSH key is generated to allow *systemd-vmspawn* to open a
D-Bus connection to the VMs systemd bus. Setting this to "no" will
disable SSH key generation.

The generated keys are ephemeral. That is they are valid only for the
current invocation of *systemd-vmspawn*, and are typically not
persisted.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--ssh-key-type=*/TYPE/

#+begin_quote
Configures the type of SSH key to generate, see *ssh-keygen*(1) for more
information.

By default "ed25519" keys are generated, however "rsa" keys may also be
useful if the VM has a particularly old version of *sshd*.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Input/Output Options
*--console=*/MODE/

#+begin_quote
Configures how to set up the console of the VM. Takes one of
"interactive", "read-only", "native", "gui". Defaults to "interactive".
"interactive" provides an interactive terminal interface to the VM.
"read-only" is similar, but is strictly read-only, i.e. does not accept
any input from the user. "native" also provides a TTY-based interface,
but uses qemu native implementation (which means the qemu monitor is
available). "gui" shows the qemu graphical UI.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

*--background=*/COLOR/

#+begin_quote
Change the terminal background color to the specified ANSI color as long
as the VM runs. The color specified should be an ANSI X3.64 SGR
background color, i.e. strings such as "40", "41", ..., "47",
"48;2;...", "48;5;...". See *ANSI Escape Code (Wikipedia)*[2] for
details. Assign an empty string to disable any coloring. This only has
an effect in *--console=interactive* and *--console=read-only* modes.

Added in version 256.

#+end_quote

** Credentials
*--load-credential=*/ID/*:*/PATH/, *--set-credential=*/ID/*:*/VALUE/

#+begin_quote
Pass a credential to the virtual machine. These two options correspond
to the /LoadCredential=/ and /SetCredential=/ settings in unit files.
See *systemd.exec*(5) for details about these concepts, as well as the
syntax of the options arguments.

In order to embed binary data into the credential data for
*--set-credential=*, use C-style escaping (i.e. "\n" to embed a newline,
or "\x00" to embed a *NUL* byte). Note that the invoking shell might
already apply unescaping once, hence this might require double escaping!

Added in version 255.

#+end_quote

** Other
*--no-pager*

#+begin_quote
Do not pipe output into a pager.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Print a short help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*--version*

#+begin_quote
Print a short version string and exit.

#+end_quote

* ENVIRONMENT
/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL/

#+begin_quote
The maximum log level of emitted messages (messages with a higher log
level, i.e. less important ones, will be suppressed). Takes a
comma-separated list of values. A value may be either one of (in order
of decreasing importance) *emerg*, *alert*, *crit*, *err*, *warning*,
*notice*, *info*, *debug*, or an integer in the range 0...7. See
*syslog*(3) for more information. Each value may optionally be prefixed
with one of *console*, *syslog*, *kmsg* or *journal* followed by a colon
to set the maximum log level for that specific log target (e.g.
*SYSTEMD_LOG_LEVEL=debug,console:info* specifies to log at debug level
except when logging to the console which should be at info level). Note
that the global maximum log level takes priority over any per target
maximum log levels.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_COLOR/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages written to the tty will be colored
according to priority.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display logs will
color messages based on the log level on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TIME/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, console log messages will be prefixed with a
timestamp.

This setting is only useful when messages are written directly to the
terminal or a file, because *journalctl*(1) and other tools that display
logs will attach timestamps based on the entry metadata on their own.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_LOCATION/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with a filename and line
number in the source code where the message originates.

Note that the log location is often attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TID/

#+begin_quote
A boolean. If true, messages will be prefixed with the current numerical
thread ID (TID).

Note that the this information is attached as metadata to journal
entries anyway. Including it directly in the message text can
nevertheless be convenient when debugging programs.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_TARGET/

#+begin_quote
The destination for log messages. One of *console* (log to the attached
tty), *console-prefixed* (log to the attached tty but with prefixes
encoding the log level and "facility", see *syslog*(3), *kmsg* (log to
the kernel circular log buffer), *journal* (log to the journal),
*journal-or-kmsg* (log to the journal if available, and to kmsg
otherwise), *auto* (determine the appropriate log target automatically,
the default), *null* (disable log output).

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LOG_RATELIMIT_KMSG/

#+begin_quote
Whether to ratelimit kmsg or not. Takes a boolean. Defaults to "true".
If disabled, systemd will not ratelimit messages written to kmsg.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGER/

#+begin_quote
Pager to use when *--no-pager* is not given; overrides /$PAGER/. If
neither /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ nor /$PAGER/ are set, a set of well-known pager
implementations are tried in turn, including *less*(1) and *more*(1),
until one is found. If no pager implementation is discovered no pager is
invoked. Setting this environment variable to an empty string or the
value "cat" is equivalent to passing *--no-pager*.

Note: if /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set, /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ (as well as
/$PAGER/) will be silently ignored.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESS/

#+begin_quote
Override the options passed to *less* (by default "FRSXMK").

Users might want to change two options in particular:

*K*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to exit immediately when Ctrl+C is
pressed. To allow *less* to handle Ctrl+C itself to switch back to the
pager command prompt, unset this option.

If the value of /$SYSTEMD_LESS/ does not include "K", and the pager that
is invoked is *less*, Ctrl+C will be ignored by the executable, and
needs to be handled by the pager.

#+end_quote

*X*

#+begin_quote
This option instructs the pager to not send termcap initialization and
deinitialization strings to the terminal. It is set by default to allow
command output to remain visible in the terminal even after the pager
exits. Nevertheless, this prevents some pager functionality from
working, in particular paged output cannot be scrolled with the mouse.

#+end_quote

Note that setting the regular /$LESS/ environment variable has no effect
for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

See *less*(1) for more discussion.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_LESSCHARSET/

#+begin_quote
Override the charset passed to *less* (by default "utf-8", if the
invoking terminal is determined to be UTF-8 compatible).

Note that setting the regular /$LESSCHARSET/ environment variable has no
effect for *less* invocations by systemd tools.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, the "secure" mode of the pager is
enabled; if false, disabled. If /$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at
all, secure mode is enabled if the effective UID is not the same as the
owner of the login session, see *geteuid*(2) and
*sd_pid_get_owner_uid*(3). In secure mode, *LESSSECURE=1* will be set
when invoking the pager, and the pager shall disable commands that open
or create new files or start new subprocesses. When
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ is not set at all, pagers which are not known to
implement secure mode will not be used. (Currently only *less*(1)
implements secure mode.)

Note: when commands are invoked with elevated privileges, for example
under *sudo*(8) or *pkexec*(1), care must be taken to ensure that
unintended interactive features are not enabled. "Secure" mode for the
pager may be enabled automatically as describe above. Setting
/SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE=0/ or not removing it from the inherited
environment allows the user to invoke arbitrary commands. Note that if
the /$SYSTEMD_PAGER/ or /$PAGER/ variables are to be honoured,
/$SYSTEMD_PAGERSECURE/ must be set too. It might be reasonable to
completely disable the pager using *--no-pager* instead.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_COLORS/

#+begin_quote
Takes a boolean argument. When true, *systemd* and related utilities
will use colors in their output, otherwise the output will be
monochrome. Additionally, the variable can take one of the following
special values: "16", "256" to restrict the use of colors to the base 16
or 256 ANSI colors, respectively. This can be specified to override the
automatic decision based on /$TERM/ and what the console is connected
to.

#+end_quote

/$SYSTEMD_URLIFY/

#+begin_quote
The value must be a boolean. Controls whether clickable links should be
generated in the output for terminal emulators supporting this. This can
be specified to override the decision that *systemd* makes based on
/$TERM/ and other conditions.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
*Example 1. Run an Arch Linux VM image generated by mkosi*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ mkosi -d arch -p systemd -p linux --autologin -o image.raw -f build
$ systemd-vmspawn --image=image.raw
      
#+end_example

#+end_quote

*Example 2. Import and run a Fedora 39 Cloud image using machinectl*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ curl -L \
       -O https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/40/Cloud/x86_64/images/Fedora-Cloud-Base-40-1.10.x86_64.raw.xz \
       -O https://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/40/Cloud/x86_64/images/Fedora-Cloud-40-1.10-x86_64-CHECKSUM \
       -O https://fedoraproject.org/fedora.gpg
$ gpgv --keyring ./fedora.gpg Fedora-Cloud-40-1.10-x86_64-CHECKSUM
$ sha256sum -c Fedora-Cloud-40-1.10-x86_64-CHECKSUM
# machinectl import-raw Fedora-Cloud-Base-40-1.10.x86_64.raw.xz fedora-40-cloud
# systemd-vmspawn -M fedora-40-cloud
      
#+end_example

#+end_quote

*Example 3. Build and run systemds system image and forward the VMs
journal to a local file*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ mkosi build
$ systemd-vmspawn \
    -D mkosi.output/system \
    --private-users $(grep $(whoami) /etc/subuid | cut -d: -f2) \
    --linux mkosi.output/system.efi \
    --forward-journal=vm.journal \
    enforcing=0
      
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Note: this example also uses a kernel command line argument to ensure
SELinux isnt started in enforcing mode.

*Example 4. SSH into a running VM using systemd-ssh-proxy*

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
$ mkosi build
$ my_vsock_cid=3735928559
$ systemd-vmspawn \
    -D mkosi.output/system \
    --private-users $(grep $(whoami) /etc/subuid | cut -d: -f2) \
    --linux mkosi.output/system.efi \
    --vsock-cid $my_vsock_cid \
    enforcing=0
$ ssh root@vsock/$my_vsock_cid -i /run/user/$UID/systemd/vmspawn/machine-*-system-ed25519
      
#+end_example

#+end_quote

* EXIT STATUS
If an error occurred the value errno is propagated to the return code.
If EXIT_STATUS is supplied by the running image that is returned.
Otherwise EXIT_SUCCESS is returned.

* SEE ALSO
*systemd*(1), *mkosi*(1), *machinectl*(1), *importctl*(1), *Boot Loader
Specification*[1]

* NOTES
-  1. :: Boot Loader Specification

  https://uapi-group.org/specifications/specs/boot_loader_specification

-  2. :: ANSI Escape Code (Wikipedia)

  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#SGR_(Select_Graphic_Rendition)_parameters
