#+TITLE: Manpages - uclampset.1
* NAME
uclampset - manipulate the utilization clamping attributes of the system
or a process

* SYNOPSIS
*uclampset* [options] [*-m* /uclamp_min/] [*-M* /uclamp_max] _command
argument/

*uclampset* [options] [*-m* /uclamp_min/] [*-M* /uclamp_max/] *-p* /PID/

* DESCRIPTION
*uclampset* sets or retrieves the utilization clamping attributes of an
existing /PID/, or runs /command/ with the given attributes.

Utilization clamping is a new feature added in v5.3. It gives a hint to
the scheduler about the allowed range of utilization the task should be
operating at.

The utilization of the task affects frequency selection and task
placement. Only schedutil cpufreq governor understands handling util
clamp hints at the time of writing. Consult your kernel docs for further
info about other cpufreq governors support.

If you're running on asymmetric heterogeneous system like Arm's
big.LITTLE. Utilization clamping can help bias task placement. If the
task is boosted such that /util_min/ value is higher than the little
cores capacity, then the scheduler will do its best to place it on a big
core.

Similarly, if /util_max/ is smaller than or equal the capacity of the
little cores, then the scheduler can still choose to place it there even
if the actual utilization of the task is at max.

Setting a task's /uclamp_min/ to a none zero value will effectively
boost the task as when it runs it'll always start from this utilization
value.

By setting a task's /uclamp_max/ below 1024, this will effectively cap
the task as when it runs it'll never be able to go above this
utilization value.

The full utilization range is: [0:1024]. The special value -1 is used to
reset to system's default.

* OPTIONS
*-m*

#+begin_quote
Set /util_min/ value.

#+end_quote

*-M*

#+begin_quote
Set /util_max/ value.

#+end_quote

*-a*, *--all-tasks*

#+begin_quote
Set or retrieve the utilization clamping attributes of all the tasks
(threads) for a given PID.

#+end_quote

*-p*, *--pid*

#+begin_quote
Operate on an existing PID and do not launch a new task.

#+end_quote

*-s*, *--system*

#+begin_quote
Set or retrieve the system-wide utilization clamping attributes.

#+end_quote

*-R*, *--reset-on-fork*

#+begin_quote
Set *SCHED_FLAG_RESET_ON_FORK* flag.

#+end_quote

*-v*, *--verbose*

#+begin_quote
Show status information.

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* USAGE
The default behavior is to run a new command:

#+begin_quote
*uclampset* /[-m uclamp_min]/ /[-M uclamp_max]/ /command/ [/arguments/]

#+end_quote

You can also retrieve the utilization clamping attributes of an existing
task:

#+begin_quote
*uclampset -p* /PID/

#+end_quote

Or set them:

#+begin_quote
*uclampset -p* /PID/ /[-m uclamp_min]/ /[-M uclamp_max]/

#+end_quote

Or control the system-wide attributes:

#+begin_quote
*uclampset -s* /[-m uclamp_min]/ /[-M uclamp_max]/

#+end_quote

* PERMISSIONS
A user must possess *CAP_SYS_NICE* to change the scheduling attributes
of a process. Any user can retrieve the scheduling information.

* NOTES
The system wide utilization clamp attributes are there to control the
/allowed/ range the tasks can use. By default both /uclamp_min/ and
/uclamp_max/ are set to 1024. This means users can set the utilization
clamp values for their task across the full range [0:1024].

For example:

#+begin_quote
*uclampset -s* =-m 512= =-M 700=

#+end_quote

will prevent any task from being boosted higher than 512. And all tasks
in the systems are capped to a utilization of 700. Effectively rendering
the maximum performance of the system to 700.

Consult your kernel docs for the exact expected behavior on that kernel.

* AUTHORS
* SEE ALSO
*nice*(1), *renice*(1), *taskset*(1), *sched*(7)

See *sched_setscheduler*(2) and *sched_setattr*(2) for a description of
the Linux scheduling scheme.

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *uclampset* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
