#+TITLE: Manpages - whereis.1
* NAME
whereis - locate the binary, source, and manual page files for a command

* SYNOPSIS
*whereis* [options] [*-BMS* /directory/... *-f*] /name/...

* DESCRIPTION
*whereis* locates the binary, source and manual files for the specified
command names. The supplied names are *first stripped of leading
pathname components*. Prefixes of *s.* resulting from use of source code
control are also dealt with. *whereis* then attempts to locate the
desired program in the standard Linux places, and in the places
specified by *$PATH* and *$MANPATH*.

The search restrictions (options *-b*, *-m* and *-s*) are cumulative and
apply to the subsequent /name/ patterns on the command line. Any new
search restriction resets the search mask. For example,

#+begin_quote
*whereis -bm ls tr -m gcc*\\

#+end_quote

searches for "ls" and "tr" binaries and man pages, and for "gcc" man
pages only.

The options *-B*, *-M* and *-S* reset search paths for the subsequent
/name/ patterns. For example,

#+begin_quote
*whereis -m ls -M /usr/share/man/man1 -f cal*\\

#+end_quote

searches for "*ls*" man pages in all default paths, but for "cal" in the
//usr/share/man/man1/ directory only.

* OPTIONS
*-b*

#+begin_quote
Search for binaries.

#+end_quote

*-m*

#+begin_quote
Search for manuals.

#+end_quote

*-s*

#+begin_quote
Search for sources.

#+end_quote

*-u*

#+begin_quote
Only show the command names that have unusual entries. A command is said
to be unusual if it does not have just one entry of each explicitly
requested type. Thus *whereis -m -u ** asks for those files in the
current directory which have no documentation file, or more than one.

#+end_quote

*-B* /list/

#+begin_quote
Limit the places where *whereis* searches for binaries, by a
whitespace-separated list of directories.

#+end_quote

*-M* /list/

#+begin_quote
Limit the places where *whereis* searches for manuals and documentation
in Info format, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.

#+end_quote

*-S* /list/

#+begin_quote
Limit the places where *whereis* searches for sources, by a
whitespace-separated list of directories.

#+end_quote

*-f*

#+begin_quote
Terminates the directory list and signals the start of filenames. It
/must/ be used when any of the *-B*, *-M*, or *-S* options is used.

#+end_quote

*-l*

#+begin_quote
Output the list of effective lookup paths that *whereis* is using. When
none of *-B*, *-M*, or *-S* is specified, the option will output the
hard-coded paths that the command was able to find on the system.

#+end_quote

*-g*

#+begin_quote
Interpret the next names as a *glob(7)* patterns. *whereis* always
compares only filenames (aka basename) and never complete path. Using
directory names in the pattern has no effect. Don't forget that the
shell interprets the pattern when specified on the command line without
quotes. It's necessary to use quotes for the /name/, for example:

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
whereis -g find*
#+end_example

#+end_quote

\\

#+end_quote

*-h*, *--help*

#+begin_quote
Display help text and exit.

#+end_quote

*-V*, *--version*

#+begin_quote
Print version and exit.

#+end_quote

* FILE SEARCH PATHS
By default *whereis* tries to find files from hard-coded paths, which
are defined with glob patterns. The command attempts to use the contents
of *$PATH* and *$MANPATH* environment variables as default search path.
The easiest way to know what paths are in use is to add the *-l* listing
option. Effects of the *-B*, *-M*, and *-S* are displayed with *-l*.

* ENVIRONMENT
*WHEREIS_DEBUG*=all

#+begin_quote
enables debug output.

#+end_quote

* EXAMPLES
To find all files in //usr/bin/ which are not documented in
//usr/man/man1/ or have no source in //usr/src/:

#+begin_quote
*cd /usr/bin*\\
*whereis -u -ms -M /usr/man/man1 -S /usr/src -f **\\

#+end_quote

* REPORTING BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at
<https://github.com/util-linux/util-linux/issues>.

* AVAILABILITY
The *whereis* command is part of the util-linux package which can be
downloaded from /Linux Kernel Archive/
<https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.
