#+TITLE: Manpages - xdg-desktop-icon.1
.SH "NAME" xdg-desktop-icon - command line tool for (un)installing icons
to the desktop

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.HP u

*xdg-desktop-icon* install [*--novendor*] /FILE/

.HP u

*xdg-desktop-icon* uninstall /FILE/

.HP u

*xdg-desktop-icon* { | *--help* | *--manual* | *--version* }

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP The xdg-desktop-icon program can be used to install an application
launcher or other file on the desktop of the current user.

.PP An application launcher is represented by a *.desktop file. Desktop
files are defined by the freedesktop.org Desktop Entry Specification.
The most important aspects of *.desktop files are summarized below.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP install

#+begin_quote
Installs /FILE/ to the desktop of the current user. /FILE/ can be a
​*.desktop file or any other type of file.

.RE

.PP uninstall

#+begin_quote
Removes /FILE/ from the desktop of the current user.

.RE .SH "OPTIONS"

.PP *--novendor*

#+begin_quote
Normally, xdg-desktop-icon checks to ensure that a *.desktop file to be
installed has a vendor prefix. This option can be used to disable that
check.

A vendor prefix consists of alpha characters ([a-zA-Z]) and is
terminated with a dash ("-"). Companies and organizations are encouraged
to use a word or phrase, preferably the organizations name, for which
they hold a trademark as their vendor prefix. The purpose of the vendor
prefix is to prevent name conflicts.

.RE

.PP *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show command synopsis.

.RE

.PP *--manual*

#+begin_quote
Show this manual page.

.RE

.PP *--version*

#+begin_quote
Show the xdg-utils version information.

.RE

.SH "DESKTOP FILES"

.PP An application launcher can be added to the desktop by installing a
​*.desktop file. A *.desktop file consists of a /[Desktop Entry]/ header
followed by several /Key/=/Value/ lines.

.PP A *.desktop file can provide a name and description for an
application in several different languages. This is done by adding a
language code as used by LC_MESSAGES in square brackets behind the
/Key/. This way one can specify different values for the same /Key/
depending on the currently selected language.

.PP The following keys are often used:

.PP Type=Application

#+begin_quote
This is a mandatory field that indicates that the *.desktop file
describes an application launcher.

.RE

.PP Name=/Application Name/

#+begin_quote
The name of the application. For example /Mozilla/

.RE

.PP GenericName=/Generic Name/

#+begin_quote
A generic description of the application. For example /Web Browser/

.RE

.PP Comment=/Comment/

#+begin_quote
Optional field to specify a tooltip for the application. For example
/Visit websites on the Internet/

.RE

.PP Icon=/Icon File/

#+begin_quote
The icon to use for the application. This can either be an absolute path
to an image file or an icon-name. If an icon-name is provided an image
lookup by name is done in the users current icon theme. The
*xdg-icon-resource* command can be used to install image files into icon
themes. The advantage of using an icon-name instead of an absolute path
is that with an icon-name the application icon can be provided in
several different sizes as well as in several differently themed styles.

.RE

.PP Exec=/Command Line/

#+begin_quote
The command line to start the application. If the application can open
files the %f placeholder should be specified. When a file is dropped on
the application launcher the %f is replaced with the file path of the
dropped file. If multiple files can be specified on the command line the
%F placeholder should be used instead of %f. If the application is able
to open URLs in addition to local files then %u or %U can be used
instead of %f or %F.

.RE .PP For a complete overview of the *.desktop file format please
visit
*http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/desktop-entry-spec*

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.PP xdg-desktop-icon honours the following environment variables:

.PP XDG_UTILS_DEBUG_LEVEL

#+begin_quote
Setting this environment variable to a non-zero numerical value makes
xdg-desktop-icon do more verbose reporting on stderr. Setting a higher
value increases the verbosity.

.RE .SH "EXIT CODES"

.PP An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non-zero exit code
indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:

.PP *1*

#+begin_quote
Error in command line syntax.

.RE .PP *2*

#+begin_quote
One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.

.RE .PP *3*

#+begin_quote
A required tool could not be found.

.RE .PP *4*

#+begin_quote
The action failed.

.RE .PP *5*

#+begin_quote
No permission to read one of the files passed on the command line.

.RE .SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP *xdg-icon-resource*(1)

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.PP The company ShinyThings Inc. has developed an application named
"WebMirror" and would like to add a launcher for for on the desktop. The
company will use "shinythings" as its vendor id. In order to add the
application to the desktop there needs to be a .desktop file for the
application:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
shinythings-webmirror.desktop:

  [Desktop Entry]
  Encoding=UTF-8
  Type=Application

  Exec=webmirror
  Icon=shinythings-webmirror

  Name=WebMirror
  Name[nl]=WebSpiegel
#+end_example

#+end_quote

.PP Now the xdg-desktop-icon tool can be used to add the
webmirror.desktop file to the desktop:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-desktop-icon install ./shinythings-webmirror.desktop
#+end_example

#+end_quote

.PP To add a README file to the desktop as well, the following command
can be used:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-desktop-icon install ./shinythings-README
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
*Kevin Krammer*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

*Jeremy White*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

* COPYRIGHT
\\
Copyright © 2006\\
