#+TITLE: Manpages - xdg-icon-resource.1
.SH "NAME" xdg-icon-resource - command line tool for (un)installing icon
resources

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.HP u

*xdg-icon-resource* install [*--noupdate*] [*--novendor*] [*--theme
*/theme/] [*--context */context/] [*--mode */mode/] *--size */size/
/icon-file/ [/icon-name/]

.HP u

*xdg-icon-resource* uninstall [*--noupdate*] [*--theme */theme/]
[*--context */context/] [*--mode */mode/] *--size */size/ /icon-name/

.HP u

*xdg-icon-resource* forceupdate [*--theme */theme/] [*--mode */mode/]

.HP u

*xdg-icon-resource* { | *--help* | *--manual* | *--version* }

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP The xdg-icon-resource program can be used to install icon resources
into the desktop icon system in order to illustrate menu entries, to
depict desktop icons or to graphically represent file types.

.PP The desktop icon system identifies icons by name. Depending on the
required size, the choice of icon theme and the context in which the
icon is used, the desktop icon system locates an appropriate icon
resource to depict an icon. Icon resources can be XPM files or PNG
files.

.PP The desktop icon system works according to the XDG Icon Theme
Specification at
*http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/icon-theme-spec*

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP install

#+begin_quote
Installs the icon file indicated by /icon-file/ to the desktop icon
system under the name /icon-name/. Icon names do not have an extension.
If /icon-name/ is not provided the name is derived from /icon-file/. The
icon file must have /.png/ or /.xpm/ as extension. If a corresponding
/.icon/ file exists in the same location as /icon-file/ it will be
installed as well.

.RE

.PP uninstall

#+begin_quote
Removes the icon indicated by /icon-name/ from the desktop icon system.
Note that icon names do not have an extension.

.RE

.PP forceupdate

#+begin_quote
Force an update of the desktop icon system. This is only useful if the
last call to xdg-icon-resource included the *--noupdate* option.

.RE .SH "OPTIONS"

.PP *--noupdate*

#+begin_quote
Postpone updating the desktop icon system. If multiple icons are added
in sequence this flag can be used to indicate that additional changes
will follow and that it is not necessary to update the desktop icon
system right away.

.RE .PP *--novendor*

#+begin_quote
Normally, xdg-icon-resource checks to ensure that an icon file to be
installed in the /apps/ context has a proper vendor prefix. This option
can be used to disable that check.

A vendor prefix consists of alpha characters ([a-zA-Z]) and is
terminated with a dash ("-"). Companies and organizations are encouraged
to use a word or phrase, preferably the organizations name, for which
they hold a trademark as their vendor prefix. The purpose of the vendor
prefix is to prevent name conflicts.

.RE

.PP *--theme* /theme/

#+begin_quote
Installs or removes the icon file as part of /theme/. If no theme is
specified the icons will be installed as part of the default /hicolor/
theme. Applications may install icons under multiple themes but should
at least install icons for the default /hicolor/ theme.

.RE

.PP *--context* /context/

#+begin_quote
Specifies the context for the icon. Icons to be used in the application
menu and as desktop icon should use /apps/ as context which is the
default context. Icons to be used as file icons should use /mimetypes/
as context. Other common contexts are /actions/, /devices/, /emblems/,
/filesystems/ and /stock/.

.RE

.PP *--size* /size/

#+begin_quote
Specifies the size of the icon. All icons must be square. Common sizes
for icons in the apps context are: 16, 22, 32, 48, 64 and 128. Common
sizes for icons in the mimetypes context are: 16, 22, 32, 48, 64 and 128

.RE

.PP *--mode* /mode/

#+begin_quote
/mode/ can be /user/ or /system/. In user mode the file is (un)installed
for the current user only. In system mode the file is (un)installed for
all users on the system. Usually only root is allowed to install in
system mode.

The default is to use system mode when called by root and to use user
mode when called by a non-root user.

.RE

.PP *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show command synopsis.

.RE

.PP *--manual*

#+begin_quote
Show this manual page.

.RE

.PP *--version*

#+begin_quote
Show the xdg-utils version information.

.RE

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.PP xdg-icon-resource honours the following environment variables:

.PP XDG_UTILS_DEBUG_LEVEL

#+begin_quote
Setting this environment variable to a non-zero numerical value makes
xdg-icon-resource do more verbose reporting on stderr. Setting a higher
value increases the verbosity.

.RE .PP XDG_UTILS_INSTALL_MODE

#+begin_quote
This environment variable can be used by the user or administrator to
override the installation mode. Valid values are /user/ and /system/.

.RE

.SH "EXIT CODES"

.PP An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non-zero exit code
indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:

.PP *1*

#+begin_quote
Error in command line syntax.

.RE .PP *2*

#+begin_quote
One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.

.RE .PP *3*

#+begin_quote
A required tool could not be found.

.RE .PP *4*

#+begin_quote
The action failed.

.RE .PP *5*

#+begin_quote
No permission to read one of the files passed on the command line.

.RE .SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP *xdg-desktop-icon*(1), *xdg-desktop-menu*(1), *xdg-mime*(1), *Icon
theme specification*[1]

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.PP To install an icon resource to depict a launcher for the application
myfoobar, the company ShinyThings Inc. can use:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-icon-resource install --size 64 shinythings-myfoobar.png
#+end_example

#+end_quote

.PP To install an icon for a new application/x-foobar file type one can
use:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-icon-resource install --context mimetypes --size 48 ./mime-foobar-48.png application-x-foobar
xdg-icon-resource install --context mimetypes --size 64 ./mime-foobar-64.png application-x-foobar
#+end_example

#+end_quote

This will install two icons with the name application-x-foobar but with
different sizes.

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
*Kevin Krammer*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

*Jeremy White*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

* COPYRIGHT
\\
Copyright Â© 2006\\

* NOTES
-  1. :: Icon theme specification

  http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/icon-theme-spec/
