#+TITLE: Manpages - xdg-mime.1
.SH "NAME" xdg-mime - command line tool for querying information about
file type handling and adding descriptions for new file types

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.HP u

*xdg-mime* query { | filetype /FILE/ | default /mimetype/ }

.HP u

*xdg-mime* default /application/ /mimetype(s)/

.HP u

*xdg-mime* install [*--mode */mode/] [*--novendor*] /mimetypes-file/

.HP u

*xdg-mime* uninstall [*--mode */mode/] /mimetypes-file/

.HP u

*xdg-mime* { | *--help* | *--manual* | *--version* }

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP The xdg-mime program can be used to query information about file
types and to add descriptions for new file types.

.SH "COMMANDS"

.PP query file

#+begin_quote
Returns the file type of /FILE/ in the form of a MIME type.

Please note that /FILE/ names starting with a - will be rejected, this
can be mitigated:

#+begin_quote
·

Pass absolute paths, i.e. by using *realpath* as a preprocessor.

#+end_quote

#+begin_quote
·

Prefix known relative filepaths with a “./”. For example using sed -E
s|^[^/]|./\0| as a preprocessor.

#+end_quote

.sp

The /query file/ option is for use inside a desktop session only. It is
not recommended to use xdg-mime query file as root.

.RE

.PP query default

#+begin_quote
Returns the default application that the desktop environment uses for
opening files of type /mimetype/. The default application is identified
by its *.desktop file.

The value returned by this command may or may not match the application
launched by *xdg-open* as *xdg-open* hands over to desktop specific
openers most of the time which may implement their own logic.

The /query default/ option is for use inside a desktop session only. It
is not recommended to use xdg-mime query default as root.

.RE

.PP default

#+begin_quote
Ask the desktop environment to make /application/ the default
application for opening files of type /mimetype/. An application can be
made the default for several file types by specifying multiple
mimetypes.

/application/ is the desktop file id of the application and has the form
vendor-name.desktop. /application/ must already be installed in the
desktop menu before it can be made the default handler. The applications
desktop file must list support for all the MIME types that it wishes to
be the default handler for.

Requests to make an application a default handler may be subject to
system policy or approval by the end-user. xdg-mime query can be used to
verify whether an application is the actual default handler for a
specific file type.

/Security Note:/ Never set a handler that will blindly execute code or
commands from the file being handled. Such behaviour will sooner than
later lead to unintended code execution i.e. through a curious user
trying to inspect a freshly downloaded file but running it by accident.

Keeping opening and executing separate actions helps with people
protecting themselves from malware, the default handler is an opener,
not a runner.

The /default/ option is for use inside a desktop session only. It is not
recommended to use xdg-mime default as root.

.RE

.PP install

#+begin_quote
Adds the file type descriptions provided in /mimetypes-file/ to the
desktop environment. /mimetypes-file/ must be a XML file that follows
the freedesktop.org Shared MIME-info Database specification and that has
a mime-info element as its document root. For each new file type one or
more icons with name /type/-/subtype/ must be installed with the
*xdg-icon-resource* command in the /mimetypes/ context. For example the
filetype application/vnd.oasis.opendocument.text requires an icon named
application-vnd.oasis.opendocument.text to be installed (unless the file
type recommends another icon name).

.RE

.PP uninstall

#+begin_quote
Removes the file type descriptions provided in /mimetypes-file/ and
previously added with *xdg-mime install* from the desktop environment.
/mimetypes-file/ must be a XML file that follows the freedesktop.org
Shared MIME-info Database specification and that has a mime-info element
as its document root.

.RE

.SH "OPTIONS"

.PP *--mode* /mode/

#+begin_quote
/mode/ can be /user/ or /system/. In user mode the file is (un)installed
for the current user only. In system mode the file is (un)installed for
all users on the system. Usually only root is allowed to install in
system mode.

The default is to use system mode when called by root and to use user
mode when called by a non-root user.

.RE .PP *--novendor*

#+begin_quote
Normally, xdg-mime checks to ensure that the /mimetypes-file/ to be
installed has a proper vendor prefix. This option can be used to disable
that check.

A vendor prefix consists of alpha characters ([a-zA-Z]) and is
terminated with a dash ("-"). Companies and organizations are encouraged
to use a word or phrase, preferably the organizations name, for which
they hold a trademark as their vendor prefix. The purpose of the vendor
prefix is to prevent name conflicts.

.RE

.PP *--help*

#+begin_quote
Show command synopsis.

.RE

.PP *--manual*

#+begin_quote
Show this manual page.

.RE

.PP *--version*

#+begin_quote
Show the xdg-utils version information.

.RE

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.PP xdg-mime honours the following environment variables:

.PP XDG_UTILS_DEBUG_LEVEL

#+begin_quote
Setting this environment variable to a non-zero numerical value makes
xdg-mime do more verbose reporting on stderr. Setting a higher value
increases the verbosity.

.RE .PP XDG_UTILS_INSTALL_MODE

#+begin_quote
This environment variable can be used by the user or administrator to
override the installation mode. Valid values are /user/ and /system/.

.RE

.SH "EXIT CODES"

.PP An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non-zero exit code
indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:

.PP *1*

#+begin_quote
Error in command line syntax.

.RE .PP *2*

#+begin_quote
One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.

.RE .PP *3*

#+begin_quote
A required tool could not be found.

.RE .PP *4*

#+begin_quote
The action failed.

.RE .PP *5*

#+begin_quote
No permission to read one of the files passed on the command line.

.RE .SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP *xdg-icon-resource*(1), *xdg-desktop-menu*(1), *Shared MIME database
specification*[1], *MIME applications associations specification*[2]

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.PP

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-mime query filetype /tmp/foobar.png
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Prints the MIME type of the file /tmp/foobar.png, in this case image/png

.PP

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-mime query default image/png
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Prints the .desktop filename of the application which is registered to
open PNG files.

.PP

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-mime install shinythings-shiny.xml
#+end_example

#+end_quote

Adds a file type description for "shiny"-files. "shinythings-" is used
as the vendor prefix. The file type description could look as follows.

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
shinythings-shiny.xml:

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<mime-info xmlns=http://www.freedesktop.org/standards/shared-mime-info>
  <mime-type type="text/x-shiny">
    <comment>Shiny new file type</comment>
    <glob pattern="*.shiny"/>
    <glob pattern="*.shi"/>
  </mime-type>
</mime-info>
#+end_example

#+end_quote

An icon for this new file type must also be installed, for example with:

#+begin_quote
#+begin_example
xdg-icon-resource install --context mimetypes --size 64 shiny-file-icon.png text-x-shiny
#+end_example

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

#+end_quote

* AUTHORS
*Kevin Krammer*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

*Jeremy White*

#+begin_quote
Author.

#+end_quote

* COPYRIGHT
\\
Copyright © 2006\\

* NOTES
-  1. :: Shared MIME database specification

  http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/shared-mime-info-spec/

-  2. :: MIME applications associations specification

  http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/mime-apps-spec/
