#+TITLE: Manpages - Xserver.1
* NAME
Xserver - X Window System display server

* SYNOPSIS
*X* [option ...]

* DESCRIPTION
/X/ is the generic name for the X Window System display server. It is
frequently a link or a copy of the appropriate server binary for driving
the most frequently used server on a given machine.

* STARTING THE SERVER
The X server is usually started from the X Display Manager program
/xdm/(1) or a similar display manager program. This utility is run from
the system boot files and takes care of keeping the server running,
prompting for usernames and passwords, and starting up the user
sessions.

Installations that run more than one window system may need to use the
/xinit/(1) utility instead of a display manager. However, /xinit/ is to
be considered a tool for building startup scripts and is not intended
for use by end users. Site administrators are *strongly* urged to use a
display manager, or build other interfaces for novice users.

The X server may also be started directly by the user, though this
method is usually reserved for testing and is not recommended for normal
operation. On some platforms, the user must have special permission to
start the X server, often because access to certain devices (e.g.
//dev/mouse/) is restricted. Where applicable, the X server notifies
systemd when it is ready to process requests.

When the X server starts up, it typically takes over the display. If you
are running on a workstation whose console is the display, you may not
be able to log into the console while the server is running.

* OPTIONS
Many X servers have device-specific command line options. See the manual
pages for the individual servers for more details; a list of
server-specific manual pages is provided in the SEE ALSO section below.

All of the X servers accept the command line options described below.
Some X servers may have alternative ways of providing the parameters
described here, but the values provided via the command line options
should override values specified via other mechanisms.

- *:/displaynumber/* :: The X server runs as the given /displaynumber/,
  which by default is 0. If multiple X servers are to run simultaneously
  on a host, each must have a unique display number. See the DISPLAY
  NAMES section of the /X/(7) manual page to learn how to specify which
  display number clients should try to use.

- *-a /number/* :: sets pointer acceleration (i.e. the ratio of how much
  is reported to how much the user actually moved the pointer).

- *-ac* :: disables host-based access control mechanisms. Enables access
  by any host, and permits any host to modify the access control list.
  Use with extreme caution. This option exists primarily for running
  test suites remotely.

- *-audit /level/* :: sets the audit trail level. The default level is
  1, meaning only connection rejections are reported. Level 2
  additionally reports all successful connections and disconnects. Level
  4 enables messages from the SECURITY extension, if present, including
  generation and revocation of authorizations and violations of the
  security policy. Level 0 turns off the audit trail. Audit lines are
  sent as standard error output.

- *-auth /authorization-file/* :: specifies a file which contains a
  collection of authorization records used to authenticate access. See
  also the /xdm/(1) and /Xsecurity/(7) manual pages.

- *-background none* :: Asks the driver not to clear the background on
  startup, if the driver supports that. May be useful for smooth
  transition with eg. fbdev driver. For security reasons this is not the
  default as the screen contents might show a previous user session.

- *-br* :: sets the default root window to solid black instead of the
  standard root weave pattern. This is the default unless -retro or -wr
  is specified.

- *-bs* :: disables backing store support on all screens.

- *+byteswappedclients* :: Allow connections from clients with an
  endianess different to that of the server.

- *-byteswappedclients* :: Prohibit connections from clients with an
  endianess different to that of the server. This is the default unless
  *+byteswappedclients* is specified.

- *-c* :: turns off key-click.

- *c /volume/* :: sets key-click volume (allowable range: 0-100).

- *-cc /class/* :: sets the visual class for the root window of color
  screens. The class numbers are as specified in the X protocol. Not
  obeyed by all servers.

- *-core* :: causes the server to generate a core dump on fatal errors.

- *-displayfd /fd/* :: specifies a file descriptor in the launching
  process. Rather than specify a display number, the X server will
  attempt to listen on successively higher display numbers, and upon
  finding a free one, will write the display number back on this file
  descriptor as a newline-terminated string. The -pn option is ignored
  when using -displayfd.

- *-deferglyphs /whichfonts/* :: specifies the types of fonts for which
  the server should attempt to use deferred glyph loading. /whichfonts/
  can be all (all fonts), none (no fonts), or 16 (16 bit fonts only).

- *-dpi /resolution/* :: sets the resolution for all screens, in dots
  per inch. To be used when the server cannot determine the screen
  size(s) from the hardware.

- *dpms* :: enables DPMS (display power management services), where
  supported. The default state is platform and configuration specific.

- *-dpms* :: disables DPMS (display power management services). The
  default state is platform and configuration specific.

- *-extension*/extensionName/ :: disables named extension. If an unknown
  extension name is specified, a list of accepted extension names is
  printed.

- *+extension*/extensionName/ :: enables named extension. If an unknown
  extension name is specified, a list of accepted extension names is
  printed.

- *-f /volume/* :: sets beep (bell) volume (allowable range: 0-100).

- *-fakescreenfps ps* :: sets fake presenter screen default fps
  (allowable range: 1-600).

- *-fp /fontPath/* :: sets the search path for fonts. This path is a
  comma separated list of directories which the X server searches for
  font databases. See the FONTS section of this manual page for more
  information and the default list.

- *-help* :: prints a usage message.

- *-I* :: causes all remaining command line arguments to be ignored.

- *-iglx* :: Prohibit creating indirect GLX contexts. Indirect GLX is of
  limited use, since it lacks support for many modern OpenGL features
  and extensions; it's slower than direct contexts; and it opens a large
  attack surface for protocol parsing errors. This is the default unless
  +iglx is specified.

- *+iglx* :: Allow creating indirect GLX contexts.

- *-maxbigreqsize /size/* :: sets the maximum big request to /size/ MB.

- *-nocursor* :: disable the display of the pointer cursor.

- *-nolisten /trans-type/* :: disables a transport type. For example,
  TCP/IP connections can be disabled with *-nolisten tcp*. This option
  may be issued multiple times to disable listening to different
  transport types. Supported transport types are platform dependent, but
  commonly include:

| tcp TCP over IPv4 or IPv6                        |  |
| inet TCP over IPv4 only                          |  |
| inet6 TCP over IPv6 only                         |  |
| unix UNIX Domain Sockets                         |  |
| local Platform preferred local connection method |  |

- *-listen /trans-type/* :: enables a transport type. For example,
  TCP/IP connections can be enabled with *-listen tcp*. This option may
  be issued multiple times to enable listening to different transport
  types.

- *-noreset* :: prevents a server reset when the last client connection
  is closed. This overrides a previous *-terminate* command line option.

- *-p /minutes/* :: sets screen-saver pattern cycle time in minutes.

- *-pn* :: permits the server to continue running if it fails to
  establish all of its well-known sockets (connection points for
  clients), but establishes at least one. This option is set by default.

- *-nopn* :: causes the server to exit if it fails to establish all of
  its well-known sockets (connection points for clients).

- *-r* :: turns off auto-repeat.

- *r* :: turns on auto-repeat.

- *-retro* :: starts the server with the classic stipple and cursor
  visible. The default is to start with a black root window, and to
  suppress display of the cursor until the first time an application
  calls XDefineCursor(). For kdrive servers, this implies -zap.

- *-s /minutes/* :: sets screen-saver timeout time in minutes.

- *-su* :: disables save under support on all screens.

- *-seat /seat/* :: seat to run on. Takes a string identifying a seat in
  a platform specific syntax. On platforms which support this feature
  this may be used to limit the server to expose only a specific subset
  of devices connected to the system.

- *-t /number/* :: sets pointer acceleration threshold in pixels (i.e.
  after how many pixels pointer acceleration should take effect).

- *-terminate /[delay]/* :: causes the server to terminate at server
  reset, instead of continuing to run. This overrides a previous
  *-noreset* command line option. If a delay in seconds is specified,
  the server waits for at least the delay. At the end of this grace
  period if no client is connected, the server terminates immediately.

- *-tst* :: disables all testing extensions (e.g., XTEST, XTrap,
  XTestExtension1, RECORD).

- *tty/xx/* :: ignored, for servers started the ancient way (from init).

- *v* :: sets video-off screen-saver preference.

- *-v* :: sets video-on screen-saver preference.

- *-wr* :: sets the default root window to solid white instead of the
  standard root weave pattern.

- *-x /extension/* :: loads the specified extension at init. This is a
  no-op for most implementations.

- *[+-]xinerama* :: enables(+) or disables(-) the XINERAMA extension.
  The default state is platform and configuration specific.

* SERVER DEPENDENT OPTIONS
Some X servers accept the following options:

- *-ld /kilobytes/* :: sets the data space limit of the server to the
  specified number of kilobytes. A value of zero makes the data size as
  large as possible. The default value of -1 leaves the data space limit
  unchanged.

- *-lf /files/* :: sets the number-of-open-files limit of the server to
  the specified number. A value of zero makes the limit as large as
  possible. The default value of -1 leaves the limit unchanged.

- *-ls /kilobytes/* :: sets the stack space limit of the server to the
  specified number of kilobytes. A value of zero makes the stack size as
  large as possible. The default value of -1 leaves the stack space
  limit unchanged.

- *-maxclients* :: *64*|*128*|*256*|*512* Set the maximum number of
  clients allowed to connect to the X server. Acceptable values are 64,
  128, 256 or 512.

- *-render* :: *default*|*mono*|*gray*|*color* sets the color allocation
  policy that will be used by the render extension.

  - /default/ :: selects the default policy defined for the display
    depth of the X server.

  - /mono/ :: don't use any color cell.

  - /gray/ :: use a gray map of 13 color cells for the X render
    extension.

  - /color/ :: use a color cube of at most 4*4*4 colors (that is 64
    color cells).

- *-dumbSched* :: disables smart scheduling on platforms that support
  the smart scheduler.

- *-schedInterval /interval/* :: sets the smart scheduler's scheduling
  interval to /interval/ milliseconds.

* XDMCP OPTIONS
X servers that support XDMCP have the following options. See the /X
Display Manager Control Protocol/ specification for more information.

- *-query /hostname/* :: enables XDMCP and sends Query packets to the
  specified /hostname/.

- *-broadcast* :: enable XDMCP and broadcasts BroadcastQuery packets to
  the network. The first responding display manager will be chosen for
  the session.

- *-multicast [/address/ [/hop/ count]]* :: Enable XDMCP and multicast
  BroadcastQuery packets to the network. The first responding display
  manager is chosen for the session. If an address is specified, the
  multicast is sent to that address. If no address is specified, the
  multicast is sent to the default XDMCP IPv6 multicast group. If a hop
  count is specified, it is used as the maximum hop count for the
  multicast. If no hop count is specified, the multicast is set to a
  maximum of 1 hop, to prevent the multicast from being routed beyond
  the local network.

- *-indirect /hostname/* :: enables XDMCP and send IndirectQuery packets
  to the specified /hostname/.

- *-port /port-number/* :: uses the specified /port-number/ for XDMCP
  packets, instead of the default. This option must be specified before
  any -query, -broadcast, -multicast, or -indirect options.

- *-from /local-address/* :: specifies the local address to connect from
  (useful if the connecting host has multiple network interfaces). The
  /local-address/ may be expressed in any form acceptable to the host
  platform's /gethostbyname/(3) implementation.

- *-once* :: causes the server to terminate (rather than reset) when the
  XDMCP session ends.

- *-class /display-class/* :: XDMCP has an additional display qualifier
  used in resource lookup for display-specific options. This option sets
  that value, by default it is "MIT-unspecified" (not a very useful
  value).

- *-cookie /xdm-auth-bits/* :: When testing XDM-AUTHENTICATION-1, a
  private key is shared between the server and the manager. This option
  sets the value of that private data (not that it is very private,
  being on the command line!).

- *-displayID /display-id/* :: Yet another XDMCP specific value, this
  one allows the display manager to identify each display so that it can
  locate the shared key.

* XKEYBOARD OPTIONS
X servers that support the XKEYBOARD (a.k.a. XKB) extension accept the
following options. All layout files specified on the command line must
be located in the XKB base directory or a subdirectory, and specified as
the relative path from the XKB base directory. The default XKB base
directory is
//nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/lib/X11/xkb/.

- *[+-]accessx* [ /timeout/ [ /timeout_mask/ [ /feedback/ [
  /options_mask/ ] ] ] ] :: enables(+) or disables(-) AccessX key
  sequences.

- *-xkbdir /directory/* :: base directory for keyboard layout files.
  This option is not available for setuid X servers (i.e., when the X
  server's real and effective uids are different).

- *-ardelay /milliseconds/* :: sets the autorepeat delay (length of time
  in milliseconds that a key must be depressed before autorepeat
  starts).

- *-arinterval /milliseconds/* :: sets the autorepeat interval (length
  of time in milliseconds that should elapse between
  autorepeat-generated keystrokes).

- *-xkbmap /filename/* :: loads keyboard description in /filename/ on
  server startup.

* NETWORK CONNECTIONS
The X server supports client connections via a platform-dependent subset
of the following transport types: TCP/IP, Unix Domain sockets, and
several varieties of SVR4 local connections. See the DISPLAY NAMES
section of the /X/(7) manual page to learn how to specify which
transport type clients should try to use.

* GRANTING ACCESS
The X server implements a platform-dependent subset of the following
authorization protocols: MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1, XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1,
XDM-AUTHORIZATION-2, SUN-DES-1, and MIT-KERBEROS-5. See the
/Xsecurity/(7) manual page for information on the operation of these
protocols.

Authorization data required by the above protocols is passed to the
server in a private file named with the *-auth* command line option.
Each time the server is about to accept the first connection after a
reset (or when the server is starting), it reads this file. If this file
contains any authorization records, the local host is not automatically
allowed access to the server, and only clients which send one of the
authorization records contained in the file in the connection setup
information will be allowed access. See the /Xau/ manual page for a
description of the binary format of this file. See /xauth/(1) for
maintenance of this file, and distribution of its contents to remote
hosts.

The X server also uses a host-based access control list for deciding
whether or not to accept connections from clients on a particular
machine. If no other authorization mechanism is being used, this list
initially consists of the host on which the server is running as well as
any machines listed in the file //etc/X/*n*/.hosts/, where *n* is the
display number of the server. Each line of the file should contain
either an Internet hostname (e.g. expo.lcs.mit.edu) or a complete name
in the format /family/:/name/ as described in the /xhost/(1) manual
page. There should be no leading or trailing spaces on any lines. For
example:

#+begin_example
joesworkstation
corporate.company.com
inet:bigcpu
local:
#+end_example

Users can add or remove hosts from this list and enable or disable
access control using the /xhost/ command from the same machine as the
server.

If the X FireWall Proxy (/xfwp/) is being used without a sitepolicy,
host-based authorization must be turned on for clients to be able to
connect to the X server via the /xfwp/. If /xfwp/ is run without a
configuration file and thus no sitepolicy is defined, if /xfwp/ is using
an X server where xhost + has been run to turn off host-based
authorization checks, when a client tries to connect to this X server
via /xfwp/, the X server will deny the connection. See /xfwp/(1) for
more information about this proxy.

The X protocol intrinsically does not have any notion of window
operation permissions or place any restrictions on what a client can do;
if a program can connect to a display, it has full run of the screen. X
servers that support the SECURITY extension fare better because clients
can be designated untrusted via the authorization they use to connect;
see the /xauth/(1) manual page for details. Restrictions are imposed on
untrusted clients that curtail the mischief they can do. See the
SECURITY extension specification for a complete list of these
restrictions.

Sites that have better authentication and authorization systems might
wish to make use of the hooks in the libraries and the server to provide
additional security models.

* SIGNALS
The X server attaches special meaning to the following signals:

- /SIGHUP/ :: This signal causes the server to close all existing
  connections, free all resources, and restore all defaults. It is sent
  by the display manager whenever the main user's main application
  (usually an /xterm/ or window manager) exits to force the server to
  clean up and prepare for the next user.

- /SIGTERM/ :: This signal causes the server to exit cleanly.

- /SIGUSR1/ :: This signal is used quite differently from either of the
  above. When the server starts, it checks to see if it has inherited
  SIGUSR1 as SIG_IGN instead of the usual SIG_DFL. In this case, the
  server sends a SIGUSR1 to its parent process after it has set up the
  various connection schemes. /Xdm/ uses this feature to recognize when
  connecting to the server is possible.

* FONTS
The X server can obtain fonts from directories and/or from font servers.
The list of directories and font servers the X server uses when trying
to open a font is controlled by the /font path/.

The default font path is /run/current-system/sw/share/X11/fonts .

A special kind of directory can be specified using the *catalogue*:
prefix. Directories specified this way can contain symlinks pointing to
the real font directories. See the FONTPATH.D section for details.

The font path can be set with the *-fp* option or by /xset/(1) after the
server has started.

* FONTPATH.D
You can specify a special kind of font path in the form
*catalogue:<dir>*. The directory specified after the catalogue: prefix
will be scanned for symlinks and each symlink destination will be added
as a local fontfile FPE.

The symlink can be suffixed by attributes such as '*unscaled*', which
will be passed through to the underlying fontfile FPE. The only
exception is the newly introduced '*pri*' attribute, which will be used
for ordering the font paths specified by the symlinks.

An example configuration:

#+begin_example
    75dpi:unscaled:pri=20 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi
    ghostscript:pri=60 -> /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript
    misc:unscaled:pri=10 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc
    type1:pri=40 -> /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1
    type1:pri=50 -> /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1
#+end_example

This will add /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc as the first FPE with the
attribute unscaled', second FPE will be /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi, also
with the attribute 'unscaled' etc. This is functionally equivalent to
setting the following font path:

#+begin_example
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/misc:unscaled,
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi:unscaled,
    /usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/default/Type1,
    /usr/share/fonts/default/ghostscript
#+end_example

* FILES
- //etc/X*n*.hosts/ :: Initial access control list for display number
  *n*

- //nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/share/fonts/X11/misc/,//nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/,//nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/ :: Bitmap
  font directories

- //nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/share/fonts/X11/TTF/,//nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/share/fonts/X11/Type1/ :: Outline
  font directories

- //tmp/.X11-unix/X*n*/ :: Unix domain socket for display number *n*

- //usr/adm/X*n*msgs/ :: Error log file for display number *n* if run
  from /init/(8)

- //nix/store/qpmml219sc5kv1qxl0akz990pzkgn91v-xwayland-24.1.3/lib/X11/xdm/xdm-errors/ :: Default
  error log file if the server is run from /xdm/(1)

* SEE ALSO
General information: /X/(7)

Protocols: /X Window System Protocol,/ /The X Font Service Protocol,/ /X
Display Manager Control Protocol/

Fonts: /bdftopcf/(1), /mkfontdir/(1), /mkfontscale/(1), /xfs/(1),
/xlsfonts/(1), /xfontsel/(1), /xfd/(1), /X Logical Font Description
Conventions/

Keyboards: /xkeyboard-config/(7)

Security: /Xsecurity/(7), /xauth/(1), /Xau/(1), /xdm/(1), /xhost/(1),
/xfwp/(1), /Security Extension Specification/

Starting the server: /startx/(1), /xdm/(1), /xinit/(1)

Controlling the server once started: /xset/(1), /xsetroot/(1),
/xhost/(1), /xinput/(1), /xrandr/(1)

Server-specific man pages: /Xorg/(1), /Xephyr/(1), /Xnest/(1),
/Xvfb/(1), /Xquartz/(1), /XWin/(1).

Server internal documentation: /Definition of the Porting Layer for the
X v11 Sample Server/

* AUTHORS
The sample server was originally written by Susan Angebranndt, Raymond
Drewry, Philip Karlton, and Todd Newman, from Digital Equipment
Corporation, with support from a large cast. It has since been
extensively rewritten by Keith Packard and Bob Scheifler, from MIT. Dave
Wiggins took over post-R5 and made substantial improvements.
